
--- PAGE 271 ---
271 
 
Month 4: 
Video 2: Reinforcing Liquidity Concepts & Price Delivery
 
Okay folks, welcome back. This is module two of December 2016's teachings for the ICT 
mentorship. We were talking about reinforcing liquidity concepts and price delivery. 
 
Okay, first on the menu today is going to be external range liquidity. The current trading 
range will have buy side liquidity above the range high. The current trading range will have 
sell side liquidity below the range low. Runs on liquidity seek to pair orders with pending 
order liquidity, which is in the form of a liquidity pool. 
 
External range liquidity runs can be low resistance or high resistance in nature. You as a 
trader want your trades to be in low resistance conditions. In other words, you don't want to 
have any resistance in your path of profitability. 
 
Secondly, we have internal range of liquidity. When the current trading range is likely to 
remain, liquidity voids will fill in, and this is associated with gap risk. And when the current 
trading range is likely to remain, fair value gaps will also fill in, and this is attributed to gap 
risk. Now, gap risk is nothing more than simply when the market quickly reprices to a level 
where there was very little or no trading. In other words, when we see a liquidity run to 
close in a range where there's only like one candle, a real long candle, usually that's a gap fill. 
And whenever you're in a long and you have a big gap underneath you, that's gap risk. So 
the market sometimes will many times reprice aggressively to close in those ranges, and 
that's what usually stops you out. As a trader, we look for them as opportunities. Order 
blocks inside the trading range will be populated with new buys and or sells. Market maker 
buy and sell models will form inside trading ranges. 
 

--- PAGE 272 ---
272 
 
Okay folks, let's take a look at external range liquidity and internal range liquidity and the 
difference between the two and how we can utilize both. 
Considering the screenshot right below: 
 
We have an old high back at point 1. We also have an old area of consolidation or 
equilibrium(circled area) which is about halfway from the low(point 2) up to this high(point 
3). Price sweeps above the high at point 1 and that will be a form of external range liquidity 
because it’s outside the range from this high(point 1) in the lowest form, so that was the 
range(marked by the two red horizontal lines as shown in the screenshot right below) prior 
to the new breakout above this high(point 1) seen at point 3; 
 

--- PAGE 273 ---
273 
 
 So price at this point we know we have equilibrium(in the circled area) but more 
importantly we have clean lows(as marked in the screenshot right below) right below there: 
 
So we would look for a move that could potentially come down to to that level. 
 
Price starts to drop (as seen in screenshot right above ). Now, what it’s doing is pulling back 
inside all these up candles(from 2 to 2A). So once it clears an old high,we would expect some 
measure of retracement and when that retracement occurs,what we are looking is the most 
logical area for it to pull back down into. 

--- PAGE 274 ---
274 
 
Check the screenshot right below: 
 
Now if you take a look at the candle the arrow points to(in the screenshot right above),we 
have a previous up candle,rather large candle. The candle the arrow points to have a wick so 
at one point the candle opened,traded lower so there was a pass through on the range 
between both these candles(the one the arrow points to and the previous up candle by its 
left side). So the delivery price was on the up move(from the previous up candle to the left 
side of the candle the arrow points to) and then down on this one(the one the arrow points 
to) even though it’s an up close. It was offered twice all through that range. 
So at the top of this candle here(the previous up candle to the left of the one an arrown 
points to) and it’s open on the next one.That’s where I would expect to see a measure of 
short term bounce: 
 

--- PAGE 275 ---
275 
 
Let’s move on to see what price does next: 
 
Price trades to the point where a short term bounce was expected, stalls a little and goes 
right through it. 
 
Price comes back up to retest the same level(as seen in screenshot right above) and 
ultimately comes back down to clear out the equal lows. 
Now what I want to look for is at this moment right here in price, where is the next level of 
liquidity? In reference to the low here(point 1B in screenshot right above) and the high up 
here(point 3) which we now have to redefine is that high. The stops below the equal 
lows(would that be represented as external range liquidity or internal range liquidity?) in the 
context from this high(point 3) to this low(point 1B), it’s internal range liquidity but from this 
low(point 2B) to this high(point 3), it’s external range liquidity because it’s piercing it down. 
In other words we created a range from this low(point 2B) to this high(point 3) so we expect 
this range to be given up and run the stops out (below point 2B). 

--- PAGE 276 ---
276 
 
Once that’s done, if we are going to go higher and bounce higher or trade higher or you 
make a new high(we don’t ever know that). We look for the areas of liquidity. So we know 
there’s an up candle here(the up candle prior to the down candle that took out the low at 
point 2B in screenshot above) so we can reference the low of that up candle. 
What else do you see in the chart?Check it out below: 
 
In between the two wicks(the orange shaded area),price was only delivered on the 
downside so we have a fair value gap. So if we want to trade higher, we can expect to see 
the market want to reach up into that 106.50 level. If it trades through this green candle(the 
green candle prior to the black candle that took out the low at point 2B), it’s going to want 
to reach up into fair value gap we have delineated. 
 
Now the range we are trading in is this low(at point 4) and this high(at point 3) as delineated 
in screenshot right above. So if we see price trade up from its current position, we would 
expect it to reach up into 106.25. If it gets through the up candle(the one the arrow points to 
in the screenshot right above),we would be expecting it to trade up into the fair value gap 

--- PAGE 277 ---
277 
 
closing that range and then ultimately it could trade as high as this candle’s low(the candle 
the cursor points to in the screenshot right below): 
 
The low comes in at 118.86 so we’ll call it 118.85 to 118.90. 
 
So inside the range from point 3 to point 4,we would be aiming for internal range liquidity. 

--- PAGE 278 ---
278 
 
Let’s see the new price movement in screenshot down below: 
 
Price trades all the way up right into the shaded area(fair value gap). 
Now, because we’re looking at a monthly chart of the Japanese yen, we’re going to drop 
down into a weekly timeframe and we’re going to see how those levels affect the price 
action in the delivery. 
Check out weekly chart right below: 
 
So we have that fair value gap a little bit more refined, we can see the wicks forming the fair 
value gap on the weekly chart so we can adjust that and refine that a little more so that we 
can have the exact area which price will look to fill in. It’s only on this down candle(the one 
the cursor points to in the screenshot right below) price is delivered on the sell side. No 

--- PAGE 279 ---
279 
 
upside is been offered until now we’re starting to see it. 
 
So every time the market creates a trading range going lower,you want to mark off the 
previous high and the new low and when price trades back up, you’re trading inside that 
range. So if you trade short at a bearish order block(which is the last up candle),that’s going 
to be a return to internal range liquidity but you’re going to be looking for external range 
liquidity to exit on(which is the stop below the low). Price runs down and hits that, that’s 
where you look to exit. 
Predominantly, my ranges are internal range liquidity entries with exits at external range 
liquidity. In other words, I am buying inside the range and selling it outside the range once it 
breaks it. If I am in sync with the marketplace and I know what direction it wants to go and 
we’re framing based on the monthly chart here so you’re going to see the benefits of doing 
what I’m doing here. If I'm looking for it to go higher relative to the monthly chart, anytime 
that the market comes down below a short-term low, I can be a buyer of that on short term 
external range liquidity or buying up stops, but the expectations of the range will continue 
going higher seeking monthly internal range liquidity in the form of this fair value gap. 
 
And I'm probably confusing some of you that are listening, very technically I'm sure, but the 
point is once you understand on a higher time frame where the market wants to go, you'll be 
able to frame your trade setups as we drop down into a daily. 

--- PAGE 280 ---
280 
 
Okay, so the daily chart is shown below: 
 
Market creates small area of institutional order flow(the little shaded portion in the 
screenshot above),comes down and hits the same order block and rallies.  
Now, watch what happens, in the grand scheme of things in the monthly range we are 
trading, every time we create a new high, that’s a run on external range liquidity on this 
timeframe being the daily but on the monthly chart, it’s still internal range liquidity because 
you’re just inside of a larger monthly range. 
 
When we understand where the monthly and the weekly are trying to trade to, when we 
look at daily setups like this, this creates the recipe, if you will, low resistance liquidity runs, 
because you're trading in sync with the monthly where the monthly will most likely want to 
see price go up into. So every time a run above an old high is expected, that's going to be 
framed as a low resistance liquidity run. 

--- PAGE 281 ---
281 
 
 
Every time we see this(a run above an old high), you can see how price reacts to it—very 
little resistance on the part of price to get through these levels because it has an agenda. It 
wants to get to a specific price level relative to a higher time frame because the funds trade 
on the monthly and the weekly basis. So if we can keep that in context and frame our trades 
with this idea, we will always be able to classify a trade whether if it's a high resistance or a 
low resistance liquidity run. 
 
So if we drop down into a four-hour chart(as shown right below): 
We can see the highs being ran out. Every high has very little difficulty getting through it 
because it's framed on low resistance liquidity runs based on the higher time frame monthly. 
You can't even see the range at which the monthly has that fair value gap in. 
 
 

--- PAGE 282 ---
282 
 
This high(point 6) is broken through, no problem. This high(point 5) is broken through, no 
problem.  This high(point 4) is broken through,no problem. 
 Now it's a small little consolidation, but ultimately it runs aggressively and it's going to reach 
for these highs here(at points 1,2 and 3). 
I get questions so many times about how I know where the market's going to be reaching for 
for specific buy stops when we do our live session. This is how I do it: I use the higher time 
frame institutional order flow to frame out where internal range liquidity is and where 
external range liquidity is, where is the buy stops, and what kind of stop or what kind of 
entry am I using and how is it aligned with the higher time frame? 
Looking at then updated screenshot right below: 
 
 
 
The market trades down(to point 8), clears out some stops in here(at point 7), gaps down 
below on the election, closes in this range(point 6A to 6B) back down to a previous bullish 
order block, rallies through, and hits the old high over here. All these highs(at points 2 and 3) 
are cleared out there, and ultimately takes off and runs out another old high(at point 1). 
View it the screenshot below: 

--- PAGE 283 ---
283 
 
Let’s  zoom out in a moment: 
 
See, okay, all through here, and ultimately trades up into that monthly fair value gap. Once 
we cleared these highs(the highs the arrows point to), we came back and created a gap(the 
red-bordered rectangle), came down and closed in the gap, and then ultimately aggressively 
ran right up into that monthly fair value gap. 
So what I want you to look at is every single time the market—all through here(from point 9 
to the shaded fair value gap), every single time it gave a retracement. 
 
This is a four-hour chart, so we're going to go down into a 15-minute chart unless it's about 
these days. Okay, and I want you to look at how price responds when it gives you a new 
range. 

--- PAGE 284 ---
284 
 
The 15-minute chart: 
 
Okay, got a low here(at point 1) and a high(at point 2). Price trades down(to point 3) into 
bullish order block, where's external range liquidity? Here(point 2). So you're buying an 
internal range liquidity(at point 3). 
   What's the expectation? You're going to see price move to the outside of the range created 
by this little move here(from point 1 to point 2), so that's your range of trading in for the 
setup. It exits here(point 2) but do you collapse your entire trade? No, you're looking for the 
ranges to take out highs; ie all these highs in here(4,5,6 and 7). 
we get another rally(from point 3A to 3B) and then retracement. Okay, so it's the last down 
candle right before the up move. Price trades back down into it, they populate more buys on 
that order block. Where's the external range liquidity at? Above this high(point 3B) here and 
over here(point 7). It runs through it. Then we see a small consolidation, we rally away, 
comes back down into the down candle(the arrow points to in the screnshot above), we 
populate more buy orders. What's it going to run for? That monthly fair value gap. Look at 
the reaction once it gets up in there, lots of profit taking, lots of it, right in here(3C to 3D). It 
ultimately comes back and starts to trade a little bit higher. I think it's indicative of probably 
seeing a little bit more rally when we open up on Sunday. 
 
But going back even further, you can see every single time the market creates a nice impulse 
price swing. We have a nice impulse price swing here, comes back down, bullish order block, 
external range liquidity comes down and hits this order block again here, rallies through, 
comes back, consolidation, it eventually presses through, clearing out the external range 
liquidity here or the buy stops above the highs. The range that's created from this low up to 
this high, the down candle, it trades back into it here, rallies away. Now all this is what you 
have to sit in if you're a position trader. Well, ultimately if you give it time, all it's going to do 
is it's going to return back to a previous order block here like it did here, and recapitalize 
more buy orders because it's a long-term objective to get up to here. So they're going to 
have to buy some here, buy some more here, let some time go by, and come back down to it 

--- PAGE 285 ---
285 
 
again, buy more of it again, and one more time, and then ultimately runs away because they 
have their position built, averaging around 113.50 to 113.25 in that area. 
 
Many, many examples of low resistance liquidity runs on the dollar Yen. We have a low, price 
rallies up, comes back down, previous order block, run from this low to where external range 
liquidity buy stops runs above here. Same thing here: we have a low, price runs away from 
this consolidation. Well, I'm not using this low, Michael, because this is a consolidation in 
here. Price moves away from that, comes back down, hits the previous order block here, 
rallies away. What's it going to run for? External range liquidity here, running up. Okay, 
you're looking to buy with internal range liquidity or a bullish order block inside a previous 
range, and trying to take profit at an old high or above it, while you're in sync with a higher 
time frame directional bias based on institutional order flow, like we described earlier with 
the monthly ranges and looking for this fair value gap on the monthly chart, because just like 
any other time frame, the market's going to want to efficiently deliver price. 
 
If there's no price trading up in this fair value gap that's been shown on the monthly chart 
that we have shaded up here in lit—I guess it's like an orange-red color—they're going to 
want to drive price up to that level. So anytime they can create a new buying opportunity, 
they're going to build more of a position on. We have a nice liquidity void in here, price 
comes down, fills that in aggressively, runs away. The range here from this low up to this 
high comes back down, retrades back into the bullish order block on internal range liquidity 
or low order block, with the expectation of unloading it at external range liquidity above the 
range high here. Price trades above it here. 
 
Many, many examples, almost two or three a week, where you can see the setups. They 
offer us an opportunity. And even on a pair I don't even like to trade, the Dollar Yen, we have 
a range here from low up to this high, trades back down to previous bullish order block. You 
can buy here with the expectation of seeing a range expansion to exit on an external range 
liquidity or buy stop, because we're looking for buys only. We're going to be looking for any 
type of impulse price going up, then a retracement back down into a previous order block. If 
we don't see any ranges that create new buying opportunities, we can target lows. So you 
can go through the marketplace and find all of the swing lows and wait for price to trade 
through them on the downside, and when they do that, they're doing what? Picking up 
orders to accumulate new longs. Like you see here, right here, right here. And the other time 
it's a rally away, comes back to the previous bullish order block, rallies away, comes back to 
the previous order block, it rallies down into a previous order block, more consolidation, 
takes the stops, and then runs above. Claim these equal highs out. I don't need to draw this 
one, it's already there. Equal lows, takes the stops, rallies away. 
 
So the type of trader you're going to be is going to be based on what you see easily in the 
charts. You're going to see either turtle soups and you're going to be looking for buying of 
sell stops or selling of buy stops, or you're going to be looking for a return back to fair value 

--- PAGE 286 ---
286 
 
where you're looking to trade inside the range or buying internal range liquidity. And by 
framing the marketplace in either one of those two disciplines, you'll have no problem going 
in and finding setups. It's not that you have to find a setup every single day, but you will find 
a setup once a week. That's all you're looking for, you're looking for one setup per week. 
 
So I'm going to zoom out to the hourly. I want to scroll back from the time at which price did 
trade up into the objective based on the monthly chart. We had a nice buying opportunity 
here on Monday and it was a Thursday buy as well. We have a Monday buy, a nice looks like 
a crossover into Tuesday, nice buying opportunity here, definitely a Wednesday buy in the 
previous order block here. Um, nice buy on Tuesday here on this week, nice buy on Tuesday 
here and on Thursday. This is the election, so we're not going to talk about that one. We 
were on the sidelines for that period, so we would not have been looking for anything on 
that. 
 
Okay, so we have a nice little buy on Monday, turn back to the previous bullish order block, 
and then we have a Wednesday buy scenario in here as well, running the stops here on a 
Wednesday. So think about this: if you know your higher time frame monthly chart is calling 
for a run higher on price, and we talked about this months ago when the dollar being bullish 
and dollar Yen should be going higher, and if we know that there's a retracement taking 
place or a correction, if you will, the market's trading lower, our mind shifts to, okay, where 
are the sell stops that they're reaching for? Because underlying the market pendings are 
bullish for a Dollar Yen. So if the market's predisposed to go higher but it's dropping, we 
don't say, okay, well, I'm not looking at that pair or I'm not looking at that market. What you 
should be dealing is, okay, I'm going to be looking for external range liquidity. On the time 
frame I'm using right now is the hourly chart, you'll be looking for anytime the market's 
trading lower. If it's trading lower, where's the lows it's trying to breach? Where is it going 
below? Here and here. 
 
So if we know that they're going to be expecting what? A reaction there. Quick reaction 
away, not just hang down there and just, you know, meander around. We want to see it go 
down there and then show willingness to go back away from it. When it does that, it's 
tipping your hand. Then you just wait for a bullish order block. It won't always happen right 
away. Like this one gave one that's pretty nice: it came, created a down candle, it was 
created what? This came up, breaching this candle's high, so now this down candle becomes 
a bullish order block. So anytime we trade back down into the range, which is here, we can 
be a buyer. But this new down candle here, okay, gives us another opportunity to expect 
another return back to this candle, which it never does here, but it creates another down 
candle here, eventually hits it here. So there's a buy. So you have to wait a little bit and not—
it's only hours, each one of these candles is an hour. So the very next day, you get another 
buy here. 
 

--- PAGE 287 ---
287 
 
Then here we see price go below this low, runs the stops out. It runs the stops. Okay, does it 
stay down there? No, it quickly runs away. Okay, now we wait. When we wait for a price to 
come back down to the last down candle here, you look for the return back to that range. 
Does it want to run it after it takes this low? Certainly. Once it runs it, it runs higher, and 
every time it takes out a new high it's showing willingness to go higher. It's giving us a 
confirmation that there's underlying strength in this pair, even if there's going to be like 
declines like this. This is all on the heels going into the election. Again, I can't stress this 
enough: that's the reason why I was on the sidelines the entire first two weeks of November. 
I just didn't want to be trading because of the potential fallout or the uncertainty, and that's 
okay with me. I have no problem with you being on the sidelines for a short period of time. 
It allows me clarity. 
 
Um, we had a really nice buy here on Wednesday of that week. I'm just pulling out the 
salient price swings that took place each week. Uh, we had a nice buy on Wednesday here, 
and we have a nice buy on Friday for a position entry. Nice retracement here, real aggressive 
retrace. Now, watch: we don't know what's over here yet, but when price dove down like 
this, down into the 120s, what's it looking for to the left? What's over there? It's returning 
back to this level over here, right there. Trying to see that full shoulder block, does it show? 
Someone rally up. 
 
So every week there's been one setup in here. We saw price rally away, it comes back down 
to the previous order block, and rallies through. It's not that you're trying to capture every 
piece of the weekly range. That's not what I mean, that's not being illustrated here. What 
I'm showing you is how you can find one setup per week. It doesn't require you to have the 
full entire weekly range. I will go into discussions about how you get the weekly range, but 
for this teaching here, I want you to think about how you can frame the larger time frame 
where the market should be going and then how it helps you define what a low resistance 
liquidity run would be versus a high resistance equilibrium run. 
 
All of this area down here is where the market traded down into on a monthly chart, 
clearing out that equal low. I'm going to leave that little area there on the chart. It's all down 
in here, once you clear all this out, all these lows were cleared out in here, and price rallied 
up aggressively. 
 
Okay, so when we take these ideas from the higher time frame and we transpose them onto 
the lower time frames, every time we expect to see the market rally, what we're looking for 
is a willingness to have very little resistance because the underlying market pinnings that are 
bullish on the higher time frame. So if the monthly chart's bullish, there's going to be no 
problem at all trying to smash through short-term highs because the market's going to be 
really driven by a higher-end money. So the monthly chart being the key player in your 
trades on framing low resistance liquidity runs: where is the marketplace seeking to go on 
the monthly chart? If you can't ascertain where the market's going on a monthly, you just 

--- PAGE 288 ---
288 
 
simply drop down into a weekly chart. And by dropping down into weekly, you can still see 
these areas at which the market should be inclined to trade up into the close-in because 
again, they only offered price on the downside. We saw a price breaking short-term highs 
here, then this high was broken here. So we have a potential market maker buy profile 
where it's going to want to go back up into areas of institutional order flow over here in this 
consolidation, but there's a fair value gap before you get to that point, right in here. And 
that's where you saw price trade right up into that, that 115.25 to 115.75, uh, reasonable 
upside objective all through here, all the way through here, for dollar-based pairs that have 
the dollar on the front of their name like Dollar Yen or Dollar Swissy. Okay, those pairs should 
have been seen strength because of the underlying strength in the dollar. 
 
So in summary, to make it a little bit more easier to understand because I was a very broad 
brush with a lot of the ideas, but I want you to study this because it helps you get to why I 
look at certain trades as low resistance liquidity runs, and that way if you understand what a 
low resistance liquidity run is, you will know what your trades are not in terms of a high 
resistance liquidity run. You don't want that to be a trade you're trying to take. You want to 
be trading with the least resistance. So every time we look to be a buyer on a retracement 
back to a previous order block, we want to see that high being taken out. But if we're trading 
against a higher time frame and there's no real reason to see the funds move the 
marketplace to those levels, it's not going to be a low resistance liquidity run. It's going to be 
a high resistance liquidity run, and they're the types of trades that you sit in too long or they 
don't pan out right away or they turn right around on you and bite you in the rear end and 
stop you out. 
 
So in simple terms, let's give you a little cheat sheet list here. Okay, you want to be looking at 
a monthly chart or weekly chart and determine where is the market more likely to go to. 
And by having that idea, if we're bullish on the monthly or weekly, then we'll be looking for 
buy signals on the lower time frame like the daily, the four-hour, to one-hour, and we would 
be looking for bullish order blocks or turtle soup longs with the expectation that any short-
term highs on those time frames, that's where the objective is. Now let's assume for a 
moment that you're looking at an hourly chart and your underlying asset direction bias is 
bullish on the monthly and weekly, or or one or the other, but either one of them has to give 
you that directional bias. If the directional bias is bullish and you see an hourly chart give 
you a return back to what would be otherwise seen as a bullish order block, but the high in 
between the range low and the high that retraced from, if it's only 20 pips, is that a trade 
that would be viewed as something that you would take? In my opinion, no, because the 
range is only 20 pips when it returns back to the previous order block. For instance, if this is 
say an hourly chart or uh maybe a 15-minute time frame, and this is the range you're looking 
at here, this retracement, if the range is only from the order block where you would be 
buying up to the high in between, if that's only 20 pips, are you going to be taking that type 
of trade? My opinion would be no, I wouldn't personally take that trade. But if I saw a swing 
like say this low here and up to this high here, and there was an order block that allowed me 
to get into it down in this point here, if I could take that trade and say this was 40 pips, that 
would be a trade I want to take, because if that's 40 pips from where the high is and where 

--- PAGE 289 ---
289 
 
the order block entry would be, that means I could potentially have 40 pips in profit because 
I'm going to try to get out with a run above that high and exiting where the buy stops would 
be in the form of a low resistance liquidity run. 
 
Because I'm trading inside of the monthly and weekly range, that would be viewed as 
internal range liquidity, which has very little resistance on the trade on a lower time frame. 
Many folks would see that as resistance, so that it's going to hold back price, but on the 
monthly and the weekly chart it's indicating they want to go higher, so it's going to have very 
little difficulty getting through it. But the precursor is you want to look at price swings that 
offer about 40 pips. If you can see anything at 40 pips or higher in looking for a retracement 
to go long on that, that gives you a reasonable first profit objective. Now obviously if you go 
out to a larger time frame, okay, and use bigger price swings, that gives you a lot more depth 
in terms of what you can pull out in terms of pips. So if you're looking for say you're a trader, 
you want to have nothing less than 50 pips, okay, well that's great, use a 30-minute or 60-
minute chart and dial in looking at your marketplace for buy signals that set up those price 
swings. So in order to get impulse price swing like this, and say this was an hourly chart, 
okay, this in this range would be from this high down to that low, if that was 50 pips or more, 
that would be a wonderful opportunity for you to get your classic 50 pips or more setup. 
 
So if you have a weekly objective, let's just say you've done the numbers, you've worked it 
out where you want to make 10 a month, and you figured out that to get 10 a month you 
need to make 50 pips on whatever equity base you have, okay? And you figure out how 
many pips you have to have, what your stop loss has to be, blah, blah, ends up you just want 
to hit that number and 50 pips will get you there. So what you do is you want to look for 
ranges that have 50 pips or more, preferably about 75 to 80 pips is perfect, because even if it 
doesn't even break the range and go up above this old high, it still gives you the opportunity 
to get that 50 pips. So don't think just because I'm saying that we have to be a buyer down 
here and looking for exit above the old high that you can't get all of your objective and your 
goal inside the range, because again, that's the beauty of trading price action, because you 
don't need the range to break if you frame the right swing. You don't need the range that 
you're trading in to break to be, you know, wildly profitable. You don't need it to move well 
beyond the range high either if you're looking for the break. In other words, if you just want 
to see it—like you didn't need it to do all this. If you were buying down here in the range 
from this high down to the low where you're trying to buy, let's say 100 pips, you could 
handsomely take 75 pips out of that and not even get the full range. But you can't do that if 
you try to do every entry on every 30-pip price swing for 25 price point, because you're 
trying to get in right now and you're looking for anything to get you in. If you're much more 
selective in your setups, you're going to trade a lot less, but your setups are going to be a lot 
more choice. They're going to be more potent, they're going to have a lot more likelihood of 
panning out for you in your favor. 
 
But you can't do that, okay, if you trade every single setup in every time frame. You got to 
pick a time frame that fits what your model is. If you're trying to get, you know, 250 pips 

--- PAGE 290 ---
290 
 
over a course of two weeks or so, okay, you're not going to get that trading on a five-minute 
chart and looking for those types of price swings. You need to be living on a four-hour chart 
or a daily chart and trading those price swings and looking for those levels, and that'll give 
you, you know, those types of objectives and returns. But to give us multiple examples on a 
day-by-day basis, I use a 15-minute time frame intraday to show you how many times you 
can see something setting up. And while it won't always deliver five-to-one or three-to-one 
even, sometimes it will deliver a lot of price action study. And then we move out to a higher 
time frame where we're only working off of an hourly chart. It'll give us a great more 
opportunity to talk about how the moves that take place that move a lot more than 30, 40, 
50 pips. We can get into the range of 100, 150 pips. Okay, those types of setups, they're 
more fun, but you have to sit on your hands and wait a little bit more. It's not much more 
than sit and wait. 
 
But that framing the ideas with the higher time frame monthly and weekly and determining 
where they want to go, keeping that perspective in mind, every time we look at an old high, 
more bullish on these lower time frames, what that's going to do is it's going to build a 
model where we can see clearly that it's a low resistance liquidity run when we buy. And we 
don't have any fear of looking at that as a resistance level or this is a resistance level. We will 
see the market want to draw up to those levels because there's buy stops above that. That's 
why the market's wanting to go there. You see how quickly it tries to get to that level here. 
And then once this high has taken place, what does it do? It doesn't waste any time, it 
quickly gets up there above this high and it alternatingly runs aggressively. And this high 
here, if we were bearish on the monthly chart or weekly chart, we will be looking for the 
opposite. We would be looking for retracements higher and making low resistance liquidity 
runs to break below a swing low, and we would look for price swings of 40 pips or more as a 
high opportunity, high-odds opportunity for a day trade or a short-term trade. If we use an 
hourly chart, we could have a little bit more potential range in terms of pips, potentially 75 
to 100 pips or so, and that'll give you the ideal setups that you'll be looking for if that's your 
objective. 
 
So a lot of folks that are in this mentorship, and those that are even outside the mentorship, 
you know, my email box gets littered with, can you tell me how to make 100 pips a week? 
Okay, that's easy. What you need to do is you need to trade a four-hour or one-hour chart, 
nothing less. That's it, that's all you're gonna do. And you wait and you look for scenarios 
across all the majors, and you'll find a hundred-pips price swing every single week. But that 
has to be your model. It can't be because I just said it and you go out there and start trying 
to force it to happen. If you don't have the, uh, psyche to do that, it's not going to work. But 
having these higher time frame charts and give you that directional bias where it's going to 
go, it helps you frame whether the trade you're going to be taking is in fact really a low 
resistance liquidity run or is it really a high resistance liquidity run. If you develop your skill 
sets on the higher time frames, it's the same thing we do in the lower time frame, but 
focusing primarily on what the directional bias is going to be on these higher time frame 
monthly and weekly, it will help you resist the urge to do those many times where you could 
go in there and you you do a trade because you get impulsive, or you just did, I don't even 

--- PAGE 291 ---
291 
 
know why you did it, because I've done it too. You're looking at the chart and say, ah, I'll buy 
it now or I'll sell it now, and you didn't take any consideration into what the higher time 
frame charts are telling you, and all of a sudden it just rockets the other way. And then you 
look back, you know, weekly and said, oh, there it was, it was hindsight perfect 2020. I 
should have did this opposite. 
 
If you stay in the directional bias that the monthly, weekly tell you that you should be doing, 
every trade that you frame has a higher odds of being a low resistance liquidity run. That's 
all we do with a market maker perspective. We go in looking for that because they're driving 
price to where the orders are, and it's not random where these orders are. They're logical 
locations. When it's bullish, the market's going to go above short-term highs. How far over? 
What when's the last high? We never knew that. We just know each time this is a range from 
this high down to this low, it trades through it. Okay, so now what's the new range? This low, 
this high. Well, it broke that. What's the new range? Okay, well this low to this high up here, 
and then this fair value gap, if it trades on through, we know we're looking for return back to 
this up candle here and then maybe these highs here and ultimately above 125.77. We don't 
ever try to call a high in the marketplace. That's not what we're trying to do. This was a 
logical area on the monthly chart to trade to and it did so. After it did that, we now have to 
evaluate: does it have more willingness to keep going higher or would it be real more 
prudent for it really to go into a consolidation here? And I think logically it should, but you 
know, the market's going to do what it's going to do. But in this module, the aim was to get 
your mindset on a monthly or weekly capacity. And that way when you go into the lower 
time frames, every trade setup you trade with in that directional bias on the monthly and or 
weekly will help you find the low resistance liquidity runs that you're looking for. They are 
the high probability setups. They're the ones that have the immediate payouts. They're the 
ones that give you the immediate responsiveness to your entries and has very little 
drawdown, and that's your goal as a trader. You want to be trading in that environment. So 
with that, guys, I wish you good luck and good trading. 
 
 
