
--- PAGE 292 ---
292 
 
Month 4: 
Video 3: Reinforcing orderblock theory[Selection & Avoiding]: 
Welcome back folks. This is the third teaching of eight from the December content of the ICT 
mentorship. We'll be talking about reinforcing order block theory, selecting and avoiding. 
And we're going to first talk about the bullish order block. Everything I say here you'll just 
reverse for a bearish order block to save time. 
 
Definition of a bullish order block is the lowest candle or price bar with a down close that 
has the most range between open to close and is near a support level. Validation of a bullish 
order block is when the high of the lowest down candle or price bar is traded through by a 
later formed candle or price bar. Entry techniques using a bullish order block: when price 
trades higher away from the bullish order block and then returns to the bullish order block 
candle or price bar high, this is bullish and can be used for a bullish entry. Defining risk with 
bullish order block: the low of the bullish order block is the location of a relatively safe stop 
loss placement. Just below the 50 percent of the order block total range is also considered to 
be a good location to raise the stop loss after price runs away from the bullish order block to 
reduce risk when applicable. 
 
Okay, let's take a look at a supposed support line. Now that can be in the form of an old low 
on a long-term or higher time frame chart. It could be an old high where price has moved 
above recently and now we're trading back down into it. So simple support-resistance ideas 
are just enough here, but the main thing is you want to be using it on a higher time frame 
charts like a monthly, weekly, or daily. And eventually you'll see price trade down into this 
level that you identified as a support level. Once price trades down into the support level 
and it could trade to it or just through it, doesn't make a difference, but what we're doing is 
we're waiting for price to show us indications that smart money or a large body of big flows 
or those individuals that are on an institutional level, they have a whole lot more collectively 
than we do in terms of money, when they participate in a move, it'll be seen in price action. 

--- PAGE 293 ---
293 
 
 
So when we have this down candle we have already assuming that this may be a bullish 
order block. We don't know that yet until at a later time when another candle trades 
through it. What are we specifically aiming for? We're identifying our focus. The down 
candle's high when that is violated with a new candle and it trades through that high, now 
we have a validated bullish order block. This candle validates the down candle as a bullish 
order block. Now this moment, if we trade back down once that down candle or suspected 
bullish order block's high is violated, we can now highlight that candle's high and even in the 
very candle that broke that down candle's high if it trades back down to that down candle's 
high or the bullish order block's high, that could be a re-traded price that which we could 
day trade off of or enter our longs early. In other words, we don't have to wait for a later 
time for it to trade back down to this level. Eventually price will run away. At this point, if you 
didn't enter on a re-trade at the bullish order block's high, you're simply going to be waiting 
for price to want to pull back. 
 
Now we have indications that there has been displacement in the marketplace. That means 
someone with a whole lot of money and a whole lot of interest wanting to see higher prices 
is now in play. They are participating in the marketplace. This is the evidence in price action 
that you have institutional sponsorship behind the move. Large flows or institutional traders 
have the capacity to move price, whereas we as lower grade traders in terms of retail or 
smaller traders in terms of respect of a bank or a large entity in an institutional capacity, we 
can't move the marketplace but they as a whole collectively can. So what we do is we wait. 
We're patiently watching price. We anticipate price start to retrade back down into that 
down candle or bullish order block's high. At this moment, we can set alerts. We identify the 
high on that candle. Now I'm using the bodies of the candles; you may end up using the 
wick, but I want your focus primarily on the bodies of the candles. And when we talk about 
wicks, I'm going to overlap order blocks with fair value gaps, because that's going to be the 
answer to many of your questions as it relates to when do we use the wicks and when do we 
use the bodies of the candles. But primarily, I want you focusing on the bodies of the candle 
when we're talking about order blocks as a whole. 
 
So at some point when we see that level, okay, that high of that order block when we're 
close to it, we can now set an alert. We can set our platform to remind us with a text to our 
phone or email us or however it is that you would be alerted by your platform. Some 
platforms have pretty sophisticated means of contacting you; others are just simply an 
audible alarm that goes off on your computer to draw your attention to a specific market. 
But until then you're going to submit to time. You're waiting. Now, this is sometimes the 
hardest thing to do as a trader. We identify what we're looking for in terms of an entry, but 
you have to wait for price to get down there. While price is trading lower you should already 
formulate an idea of what it is that you're going to do in terms of risk, how much you're 
going to put on the trade when you buy long, and where you're aiming to get out of a 
market with a profit. All those things should be factored in during this time. 
 

--- PAGE 294 ---
294 
 
Eventually price will drive down into that down candle or bullish order block's high. At that 
moment if you're in front of your charts, that's when you enter the market with a long 
position. If you have a limit order you're going to add a few pips and preferably it's about five 
pips, we like to add to a bullish candle, and that way the spread will be able to kick us in on a 
long entry. But you don't have to always rely on a limit order; you can go and rate the market 
as it hits that down candle. Now sometimes it'll drive a little bit deeper into that bullish 
order block and that's okay, but for now I want you to try to key off your demo entries on the 
down candle's body of the candle, the high, and the open in this instance. Any down candle, 
the body is going to begin with the opening and it ends with the close. 
 
What we're actually looking at is internal range liquidity. Now when we're trading inside the 
range and that range is defined here, what we're looking for is an expansion up into a known 
level of what? What's up there? Well, that's going to come in the form of external range 
liquidity. The external range liquidity is where we're going to be looking to offset some or all 
of our long position. Now we identified the buy level, we've entered the market. Before we 
do this, what we should have had in mind is, ideally, where we're looking to take our profits; 
that's up here above an old high and that's going to be in the form of buy stops. So if we're 
buying or entering long inside of a known range at a bullish order block at internal range 
liquidity, we're buying the liquidity it's offered at that level, we're going to be looking to sell 
our position to willing buyers in the form of those individuals that hold buy stops above that 
old high. That's all well and good for profit taking, but what do we do for risk? We take our 
attention back down to that bullish order block because it's going to give you everything you 
need for your trading plan. We identify the entry at the open of the down candle, that's our 
buy point or five pips above it, but we want to focus our attention in the midway point of 
that down candle. That's going to be in the form of the mean threshold. Ideally, the best 
order blocks will not see price trade down below the midway point of the entire body of the 
candle. You're going to measure the open to the close on the down candle to measure 
where the middle of it is. Do not use the wicks, don't use the very high or the very low. 
Measure your Fibonacci level, 50 level, or halfway point is the mean threshold only on a 
bullish order block. It's the same thing said with a bearish order block, but you just don't 
want to see price drive down deeper than the mean threshold by very much. It can stab 
through it just by a little bit, but we primarily don't want to see it trade down there at all; 
the better order blocks won't do it at all. And your protective sell stop is going to be below 
the bullish order block's low or below the close. Now at this point, depending upon where 
that low is, it could be the low of the wick, but primarily you're going to be looking at the 
low formed by the close of the body of that candle. 
 
Now again, focusing on what we anticipate in price, eventually price should show a 
responsiveness and trade up and through our old high. When that happens, you're going to 
be looking to take partial profits or all your profits depending upon how big that move was 
and how much profitability you obtained. What you're actually trying to do is you're going to 
be pairing your long exit with willing buy stops and that is essentially bullish order block 
trading in a nutshell. It's been complicated by many people on the YouTube that's adopted it, 
and those that want to use it on Twitter and on social media they've shared some several 

--- PAGE 295 ---
295 
 
ideas, but I want to focus on the simplicity of them here. And then we're going to graduate 
into more teaching later on in this month that are going to be subordinate sub-topics that 
are going to be taught to you during the week of Christmas. So I'm going to give you actually 
more amplified teaching with the order block. So this is not the entire treaty on order blocks 
as it relates to buying and selling.  
 
 
Okay, liquidity-based bias. If the monthly chart is bearish, the weekly chart is bearish, and 
the daily chart is bearish, that will give us a wonderful opportunity to get in sync with 
institutional order flow. Intraday charts—four hours and less—will be correcting and 
retracing higher. Now, again, the markets are predisposed to go lower because the monthly, 
weekly, and daily, we have arrived at a bias that we have seen price want to go lower. It's 
been making lower lows and lower highs. Support levels are giving way. Resistance levels are 
being formed and being respected. When you see those evidences in price along the lines of 
the monthly, weekly, and daily, we can zero in on the four-hour and start looking for liquidity 
on the buy side. In other words, there's going to be a premium built into the marketplace or 
a rally. You're going to be looking to sell rallies protected by stop raids or returns to bearish 
order blocks, or fair value gaps, and/or filling of a liquidity void, each offering a potential 
low-resistance liquidity run. Shorting for a target under a recent low—what low would you 
be targeting? Well, you want to be primarily looking to see what's near-term on the daily 
chart. What liquidity is resting on that daily chart? Your trade on a short could be looking to 
take advantage of buying back below a daily low where sell stops would be resting. If there is 
an objective that you can see on the weekly chart, much in the same way we would have 
identified something on the daily, we would be looking for that objective as well. Primarily, 
you'll be trading in the direction of the monthly chart because that's where the large funds 
and institutional order flow is going to begin. And then it moves down into the weekly chart, 
then it moves down into the daily chart. The daily chart is the most dynamic of these three 
time frames, and you'll see a lot more trades that actually counter long-term higher time 
frame institutional order flow. So, that weekly chart will have a lot longer time period 
required to change direction versus the daily chart that can go up and down multiple times 

--- PAGE 296 ---
296 
 
and still maintain the bearish nature of the weekly and the monthly. And obviously, the 
monthly takes a long time to change directions, and that's where the power of what I'm 
going to teach you in this module will give you. 
 
 
Okay, liquidity-based bias for a bullish monthly chart, bullish weekly chart, and a bullish daily 
chart. Intraday charts, four hours or less, will be correcting and retracing lower. This is where 
you anticipate the market to enter into a discount and seek sell-side liquidity to buy from, 
and what we just showed you an example of was the bullish order block that you would use 
in this instance. And we're actually going to go into the dollar index and actually break it 
down, show you all this conceptually: protective sell stop raids or returns to bullish order 
blocks or fair value gaps and/or filling of a liquidity void, each offering a potential low-risk 
liquidity run, buying for a target above a recent high. Just like we were referring to earlier, 
you're going to be aiming for something on the daily chart, preferably, and you're going to 
be looking for buy stops above the marketplace on a daily high. It could be yesterday's high, 
it could be last week's high that you can see on the daily chart, it could be last month's high, 
it could be intra-week high. Okay, but try to find something on the daily chart to give you a 
trade in terms of framing your idea that you want to be a buyer, and then preferably look for 
something in the weekly chart that would support even higher because if you have 
something higher on the weekly chart, you probably will have a lot better odds behind your 
trade if you're looking to move into a level on the weekly chart and preferably the monthly 
chart if it's bullish. You will be in sync with the institutional order flow that will be seen by 
studying that time frame. So let's take a look at the monthly, weekly, and daily on the dollar 
index and give a conceptual idea of what I'm referring to here using bullish order blocks. 
 
 

--- PAGE 297 ---
297 
 
 
 
Let’s take a look at the resistance levels,we see points 1 and 3 to be equal highs. And price 
came down and hit a level of support(point 2) and that happens at point 4. So we know that 
there’ equal highs up here(points 1 and 3). So what’s above equal highs? That was taught to 
you in September. It’s going to be in the form of buy stops. It’s too clean, too neat and price 
came down and cleared out an old low(point 2) but we’re not going to talk about stop runs 
here. We’re going to look at this as a support level. All we’re doing is classifying this as a 
support. Price comes down and hits that(at point 4) and we’re going to wait to see if there is 
a willingness to trade away from it and we see it happen here(the bull candle the down 
arrow points to). When that occurs, this up candle(the bull candle the down arrow points to) 
violates the down candle right before the level was hit at the support level.  
So once we have that, we now have an orderblock that’s validated so now we can be a buyer 
if price comes back down into this candle’s(the down candle preceding the bull candle with 
the down arrow pointing to it) opening. That price level is 94.58. 
So when price trades back down into it(at the candle next to the bull candle the down arrow 
points to) as you can see here move a little bit more show more data. Price trades down into 
it on this candle(the candle the up arrow points to). Now it quickly moves away from on this 
candle here(the candle the up arrow points to) but at that moment when it hits this, the low 
of that candle(the candle the up arrow points to) comes in at 94.07 and the level we had 
here is 94.58, so about 50 pips thereabouts in terms of movement through the level. And 
again, this is a monthly chart, so a little bit of flexibility is necessary. I'm looking for very easy 
to find low resistance liquidity runs with a bullish order block. So when price hits it, this 
particular month is August of 2016, so we could expect to see some bullishness in August:  

--- PAGE 298 ---
298 
 
 
And I’ll let you see the rest of the data here, you can see clearly that the market did in fact 
traded all the way up through the equal highs here (points 1 and 3) at the present time of 
this recording(December 2016). 
 
 
 
And we’re going to take another look at this down candle here(the one the yellow arrow 
points to in the screenshot below) because this order block(the down candle preceding the 
up candle the down arrow points to in the screenshot below) becomes another support 
level. Remember if we anticipate bullish price here(where the up arrow preceding the yellow 
arrow points to), doesn’t that by nature support price in the form of support and resistance 
ideas? If we see a down candle off of 94.58,that could be a potential bullish order block as 

--- PAGE 299 ---
299 
 
well. Remember it’s going to be trading down into that level and why are they doing 
this?They are going down there to pick up more opportunities to get long at a cheaper price. 
This candle’s high(the one the yellow arrow points to) got violated making it a bullish order 
block, price returned to it and then went higher. 
 
So what we’re going to do is we are going to drop down into a weekly chart and we’re going 
to start looking at this month here and we’re going to put a vertical line line there 
delineating everything to the right of this vertical line. 
 
So now we are going to drop down into a weekly chart and we’ll see how this gives us a 
weekly bias as well: 
 
Here we go, price trades down into that level(where the cursor points to in the screenshot 
right above), price rallies away. When price rallies away like that, we’re going to be looking 
for an objective to go long on this level in here(where the cursor points to in the screenshot 

--- PAGE 300 ---
300 
 
right below): 
 
So how many times did price move away from this down candle (the one the level pointed to 
in the screenshot right above originated from)? To be best identified again, refer back to the 
monthly chart: 
 
Prices validated that orderblock(the one the arrow points to in the screenshot right above) 
in May. 

--- PAGE 301 ---
301 
 
Okay so we’re going to move over into May(for the weekly timeframe) as shown below: 
 
And that’s the orderblock level on the monthly chart(the cursor points to it in screenshot 
right above). 
Check the screenshot right below: 
 
And price trades down into it here(at point 5 in screenshot right above) and we wait to see if 
price wants to rally away. This(the red vertical line in screenshot right above) is the level you 
have to be identifying because it’s the bullish order block on the monthly level. And then 
price is trading down into that (at point 5 in screenshot right above) so what are we waiting 
for? We’re waiting for evidence to support the idea that the large traders want to send price 
higher.  
Price does that using the candle the green arrow points to in the screenshot above. It 
violates the down candle prior to it. It breaks the high of the down candle prior to it(making 
the bear candle a bullish orderblock). So the orderblock on the monthly level can be refined 

--- PAGE 302 ---
302 
 
to look as shown below: 
 
We can now anticipate our refined level to be traded down into so we could be a buyer at 
that level. We see that happen here(at point 6), price trades down back into it. Notice the 
mean threshold of our refined bullish orderblock,price just pierces it just a little bit but does 
not go down below the body of the down candle. What do we do? We identify we’re in a 
range and the range is the the low at point 5 to point 5B. It’s trading back down into internal 
range liquidity(at point 6) absorbing some more buys in the bullish orderblock. 
We should see the responsiveness on the upside. Mind you,this is the weekly chart, look at 
the bodies’ respect of the bullish order block’s opening. Yes it trades down through it a little 
bit but we could be a buyer at that level here(at point 6) with the expectation that we’re 
going to see a run right above these highs(at point 5B). So now here’s when bearish order 
blocks are not considered. The up candle before the down move here(at point 5B) we will 
not look to that as a selling point . Why? Because the higher timeframe is suggesting we’re 
going to be going higher overall long term. And the long term trend direction is going to 
drive a lot more significant price action than looking for sells. In other words we’re going to 
be looking to be buyers on dips and selling on the rallies to take profit. 
So that’s when you want to avoid bearish orderblocks because you’re standing in way of 
institutional order flow. So there’s going to be buy stops above these highs here(at point 5B) 
that we’re going to sell our longs to. They are willing buyers, great! We’re going to be willing 
sellers if price gets up to that point from down here(point 6). 
So now also, we have this level in here(point 6) we can be keying off of on a daily timeframe 
and we can use a 4H timeframe as well to refine that. 
We’re going to look at this level here(point 6), price shows the willingness to want to move 
away and it does, we can now identify this level here(the yellow horizontal line shown in 

--- PAGE 303 ---
303 
 
screenshot right below) which was the other monthly higher bullish order block: 
 
We’re going to refine that order block too. Well, how are we going to refine it? Well, we 
have this down candle(the down candle at point 6 in screenshot right above) right before 
the price moves higher,the second up candle from point 6 trading through it validates it as a 
bullish order block. So we can refine the yellow line as shown below: 
 
Put it right on the opening. Okay, price validates the bullish orderblock right there. And you 
can see that it trades back down through it(to the red horizontal line). In this instance we 
didn’t get that much of a move away,we want to see price move away(to the upside). 
Preferably what I’m looking for is a move of whatever the order block is ,now this is a 
notation for your notes: If you see a move(here’s your order block), what I look for is 2-3 
heights or the range if you will of the order block. I want to see at least two to three times 
that as a rally away and that will give me a nice decent expectation to see a retracement 
back into to getting another opportunity to buy long. We have that there, price rallies up to 
point 7 and then comes all the way back down into what? We have this down candle(the 

--- PAGE 304 ---
304 
 
bullish order block delineated with the yellow horizontal line),we could have kept that there 
and we would have missed new any new opportunity but look what we have here; this down 
candle(the down candle that traded through the order block created at point 6 down into 
the red horizontal line) has traded into that old order block as well. So now we have a higher 
bullish order block right here( the down candle that traded through the order block created 
at point 6 down into the red horizontal line) because its open is higher than this candle(the 
order block created at point 6) so now we can refine that same level just up to a higher 
timeframe or not a higher timeframe but a higher order block. So now we can refine our 
level to that that point right there(refined orderblock delineated with a green horizontal line 
as shown in screenshot right below): 
 
Price moves away and trades through this(new refined order block delineated with the 
green horizontal line) candles high validating this as a bullish order block. Again we’re going 
to be looking for a rally of 2-3 times the order block body’s height. So it has to trade about 
here, here, here.Once it trades 2-3 times the order block body’s height, at that point, we 
have a valid swing. So now we can look for a retracement back down(which it does). The 
opening of this candle(the refined order block delineated with the green horizontal line) is 
95.85 and the low of the candle that retraced back down into it is 95.87 so it’s only 2 pips 
away from that. The high on this candle(the refined order block delineated with the green 
horizontal line) is 95.86 so it still was only 1 pip away from that as well. But we always add 
pips to our levels to get in to cover the dealing spread. 
 
We also see another higher down candle that’s higher than the refined bullish order block 
delineated with the green horizontal line. We have to move our level up to that new down 
candle( the new down candle is delineated with a blue horizontal line as shown in 

--- PAGE 305 ---
305 
 
screenshot right below): 
 
Every time it creates a new down candle, that’s going to be the new potential bullish order 
block. Price trades down into it so there is another opportunity to be a buyer here(where it 
traded down to the blule line). 
So that’s what we do from a higher timeframe to a lower timeframe, we refine our entries 
and our levels with this in mind. 
Price makes a run through, even after taking level 5B out, you can take partial profits out 
okay, take a little bit more profits out at an old weekly high(point 0 in screenshot right 
above) at point 7. Remember we’re looking for weekly high take profit set and then we leave 
a little bit on and when price comes back down(to the blue line),we can now add back on 
the positions we took off. Add them at the blue level as new longs and as price rallies 
through to external range liquidity which is this high here(point 7). Entering at internal range 
liquidity(at the blue level). The range from the blue marked level to point 7 is about 310 
pips, just to get first profit at point 7 okay, and then you’re going to look for an expansion to 
continue to take out this high(point 1) and this high(point 2) for external range liquidity. 
What’s going to be above these highs? Buy stops, so you are going to be looking to sell to 
those participants that would have an interest of buying above these highs(points 1 and 2). 
 

--- PAGE 306 ---
306 
 
Refining it further into a daily timeframe, we have it as seen right below,you can see all these 
levels get much more refined: 
 
You can see the reactions about these levels again and now because these are weekly levels, 
we can see the reactions at them on a daily basis. The levels are traded back down into 
here(point 1 in screenshot above),bullish order block. The weekly level that we transposed 
over here onto a daily. We can see these two down candles in a row(circled in the 
screenshot above). On any timeframe, you have to blend them together to get one full order 
block. In this case, it’s two down candles as one full bullish order block. So we can refine that 
here,use the wicks and the bodies to look for that as well but we’re going to focus primarily 
on the open on the candle. 
And then recently,we had this down candle(the one the arrow points to in the screenshot 
above) we talked about prior to this week’s trading(the week ending December 16,2016). In 
a pre-market analysis I told you to this down candle(the one the arrow points to in the 
screenshot above) prior to the big move up. I said that we would look for the mean 
threshold of this down candle(the one the arrow points to in the screenshot above). Why? 
Because I didn’t think we’re going to get down to the next down candle after the one the 
arrow points to. This was because I viewed that down movement as a run on stops which we 
would talk about in the next teaching but we traded back down into the middle point of the 
down candle the arrow points to and then we expected to see what happen? External range 
liquidity above this high(point 2) and then continue higher reaching into the higher 
timeframe levels we’re looking for. 
So you can see how dynamic working from the monthly levels to the weekly levels, refining 
them, waiting for confirmation that there is a displacement by smart money, and then 
simply waiting for those levels to be retraded down into, and you can refine these as small as 
you want by going into as low as a five-minute chart if you want the ultra really, really low 
risk entry and small stops. But you're looking for the direction from the monthly, the weekly, 
and the daily to get you a directional bias and only focusing on those higher time frame 
directions. 

--- PAGE 307 ---
307 
 
 
Those order blocks are the ones that you buy. Those order blocks also will keep you from 
taking focus on the bearish order blocks, because while bearish order blocks or the last up 
candle prior to the down moves that you see in price, those are good objectives to take 
profits at. 
 
Okay, if you hit a bearish order block during a time of day when profit taking should take 
place, guess what? You may not get that run above an old high. You may end up having to 
take profits at that bearish order block and then wait for Asia and Frankfurt and then London 
to retrace a little bit and then drive through, and then you'll see that run on a new higher 
high for capturing external range liquidity. 
 
So there's a lot of factors that you have to keep in mind, but this teaching was to focus your 
attention more on only getting on the long bullish order blocks when the monthly and the 
weekly and the daily show you clear indications of the markets being accumulated, and only 
using bearish order blocks, okay, to take profits. One time of day is an impact, but if time of 
day is not in effect, you don't even consider the bearish order block. You might expect them 
to pause and consolidate there, but you're looking for them to drive price through an old 
high to absorb external range liquidity because they're going to look to take profits at a 
higher price, not just at an old high or inside of an old high. They're going to try to build a 
premium in and expand that range because it's going to draw in more participation, more 
excitement in the form of the funds, and that's what this business is all about, drawing 
allocations from large institutional traders that trade managed funds and larger position 
holders. So with that, guys, I wish you good luck and good trading. 
 
 
