
--- Page 180 ---

180 
 
Month 3:  
Video 3:  InsƟtuƟonal Sponsorship – How To Iden Ɵfy It in Setups  
 
Okay folks, welcome back. This is lesson three of month three of the mentorship. We're 
going to be dealing with speciﬁcally the ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship and how to iden Ɵfy it in 
setups. 
 
First, we're going to look at the ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship in long setups. Key to iden Ɵfying 
insƟtuƟonal sponsorship in long setups is the nota Ɵon of a higher Ɵme frame price 
displacement, and that can come in the form of a reversal, an expansion, or a return to fair 
value intermediate term imbalance in price. Now, this is a move to discount or a sell side 
liquidity run. In other words, the price is going to actually retrace, or it can begin by going 
below an old low to run out the sell stops.  
 
Once one of these two occurrences appear in your chart, the next thing you'll be looking for 
is short term buy liquidity above the marketplace. Now, this is going to be ideal for pairing 
long exits to sell to, and obviously, you're going to be looking speciﬁcally for Ɵme of day 
inﬂuence, i.e. London open for the low of the day or a New York session low forma Ɵon. 
 
Now, it's important understanding that number one and number two are the criteria which 
sets up the expecta Ɵon for ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship. Then we see the actual ins ƟtuƟonal 
sponsorship come in by way of a Ʃacking the marketplace for the buy side liquidity that 
would be res Ɵng above the marketplace. In other words, we have buy stops typically above 
old highs when we're short. The assump Ɵon is—and again I teach the role playing model 
that gives us the perspec Ɵve of a market maker—so you have to have that market maker 
perspecƟve on price. So we look to sell high, but we have to ﬁnd buyers that are willing to 
buy higher from us. So, the criteria is we have to look for short-term buy liquidity above the 
marketplace. Now, it's going to be layered by stops throughout the marketplace because 

--- Page 181 ---

181 
 
there's all kinds of trading that goes on—long-term swing trade, short-term day trading, 
scalping—but you have to look at the higher Ɵme frame for that short term buy liquidity to 
give us a framework to see if there is in fact ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship in your setup. And 
obviously, you'll see these characteris Ɵcs come to frui Ɵon by studying the Ɵme of day 
inﬂuence. Now, obviously, you're not just studying it; eventually, you're going to be actually 
trading in the marketplace at these speciﬁc Ɵmes of the day—London open, New York 
session, London close, and some Ɵmes Asia.  
 
And obviously, the opposite would be for ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship in short setups. We were 
looking for, again, much in the same way we saw for the long setups, it's in reverse: higher 
Ɵme frame price displacement, and that's going to come by way of a reversal or expansion, 
or a return to fair value and an intermediate term imbalance in price, that's seeing price 
move to a premium or moving towards the buy side liquidity, make a run on the buy stops. 
And then, short term sell liquidity below the marketplace. This is going to be ideal for pairing 
short exits to cover, and obviously, those sell stops we're going to be buying those from the 
counterpar Ɵes in the marketplace. And just like we did with the long setups, we would be 
looking for Ɵme of day inﬂuence, i.e. London open high of day or New York high forma Ɵon. 
Now, in this speciﬁc teaching we're only dealing speciﬁcally with the ins ƟtuƟonal 
sponsorship seen in long setups. Everything you see in the example would just be reversing 
that for the criteria used for the short setups.  
 
 
 So we are looking at a high Ɵmeframe chart in the screenshot right above. Just for 
disclosure sake this is the usdjpy and we’re looking at the daily chart of that par Ɵcular pair in 
the screenshot right above. I have given you an ideal scenario where we can study a sample 
set of data and it’s not cherry picking. You guys can go through the charts and actually see 
some of these things come to frui Ɵon many many Ɵmes but but the criteria is for our setups 
to be high probability we have to have ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship now what is ins ƟtuƟonal 
sponsorship speciﬁcally it's the willingness to protect an underlying price swing that has high 

--- Page 182 ---

182 
 
probability of unfolding now I'm going to outline that throughout this en Ɵre teaching but I 
want you to understand simply ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship is just the impact of large 
insƟtuƟons banks and big equity traders coming in to fund the side of the mar ketplace that 
you anƟcipate seeing it run towards a par Ɵcular side of the marketplace for instance we're 
looking at a buy setup we're going to be measuring and trying to iden Ɵfy characteris Ɵcs that 
lead us to the assump Ɵon and ul Ɵmately in an understanding of ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship as 
a concept so that way we can go forward in our trading and start looking for these 
ﬁngerprints that are many Ɵmes repea Ɵng over and over again when we use higher Ɵme 
frame setups. Now looking at this daily chart you see it shows price dropping down below an 
old low this is typically where sell stops are going to be residing or as we call it a liquidity 
pool cell stops will pull below this old low and everyone that would be wan Ɵng to go long 
they would have a cell stop right below that and the fact that because everyone's doing that 
same idea pu ƫng a sell stop here that's where the idea of a liquidity pull all those orders are 
pulling together okay and crea Ɵng a pocket if you will of selling interest now it doesn 't mean 
that they want to go selling short okay some folks out there would see that as a par Ɵcular 
interesƟng level to be short at a later Ɵme should we break below it but in this case when 
we see a price run like that we obviously have to assume again it's that market eﬃciency 
paradigm again par Ɵcipants are looking to protect long posi Ɵons there so it's not that they 
want to get short they want to get out of the long posi Ɵon so if we ever see a a part a price 
move the sell stops are ran out now an aggressive trader they can see this as an opportunity 
to go into a lower Ɵme frame as that low is violated here right on this candle here you can 
go into a lower Ɵme frame and look for a similar pa Ʃern because price is fractal that means 
everything you see on one Ɵme frame is replicable on the higher Ɵme frame and the lower 
Ɵme frame so in other words it's going to have a lot of similarity throughout all the Ɵme 
frames because price is s Ɵll what price so you can look into a lower Ɵme frame and actu ally 
study the price ac Ɵon and come to basically the same idea you're seeing here an old low so 
we would wait for short term um price ac Ɵon on a lower Ɵme frame to create that same 
scenario which is a low being violated because everything on price is fractal by having that 
understanding and expecta Ɵon we can take a long posi Ɵon but we're going to go one step 
further and we're actually start looking for evidence of ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship.  
 
--- Page 183 ---

183 
 
 
Now, looking at this setup, okay, what's the ﬁrst thing that comes to mind for you as a 
trader? Obviously, going back to the September's content, there are some things I told you 
look for in terms of studying price ac Ɵon—what should you be focusing on? Well, if we're 
anƟcipaƟng a market move higher from down here a Ōer a run below the old lows, we start 
looking for: okay, where could this market go to? Well, we have a short term high at points 0 
and 1. Look at that big candle the cursor points to(in the screenshot right below): 
 
I wonder what that’s going to suggest to us.  

--- Page 184 ---

184 
 
And how about the old high at point 2 as shown in screenshot right below? 
 
We have a nice price move from point 3 to point 4,price could ul Ɵmately go back up 
to point 2,or it could just come in the area of the quick movement where the cursor is 
pointed to in the screenshot above(closing that range) or it can come up and clear the 
relaƟve equal highs at points 0 and 5.  
Remember, the things we talked about in September I gave you as bullet points for 
you.As soon as you go into a price chart,those are the same things you look for all the Ɵme. 
They are not changing. It’s the same premise every single Ɵme you look at price ac Ɵon. 
 
But looking at what we see here(in the screenshot right above),price is forming a poten Ɵal 
bullish order block. There is a high probability of buy stops res Ɵng above the old high at 
point 0. Well, we have our last down candle as delineated in the screenshot above,price is 
now reaching into that and it’s also just one more Ɵme into that area right below the old low 
at point 3. So we did one more Ɵme poke our head just below that level(using the last 
candle in the screenshot above) so we can an Ɵcipate now some sensi Ɵvity and protec Ɵon of 

--- Page 185 ---

185 
 
seeing the price not go lower. That’s what we’re an ƟcipaƟng. So if we see that, we’re gonna 
see characteris Ɵcs of insƟtuƟonal sponsorship. That means the banks are coming in and they 
are capitalizing that old low back there at point 3. That means they are buying it again. 
 
NoƟce also the marked liquidity void as shown in the screenshot right above. So 
inside that liquidity void and above the old high at point 0, we have buy side liquidity. That 
means there’s a willing par Ɵcipant or pool of buyers up there. So when we start talking 
about open ﬂoat, we’ll be referring to a lot of these ideas as well but open ﬂoat can be a 
liƩle confusing because it’s rela Ɵve to the Ɵmeframe you are looking at. So we’re working on 
high Ɵmeframes, I’m just going to focus primarily on classifying this as what it is to buy side 
liquidity in the marketplace.  
So as a market maker, they see these opportuni Ɵes to sell the stops that are below 
the old low at point 3. Below an old low to take the sell stops, what is that implying?  They're 
probably accumula Ɵng those sell stops in the form of taking the buy side of it. So if they're 
willing to buy those sell stops up, that means they're primarily building a net long book.  
And if we have sugges Ɵons in the marketplace in the form of price ac Ɵon sugges Ɵng that we 
have buy side liquidity in the form of liquidity void and old equal highs back here, we may 
see in fact a very easy low risk high probability trade scenario to be long.  
  

--- Page 186 ---

186 
 
  
And obviously you see the results of price later on takes oﬀ and ﬁlls that void in. Now, by 
itself you may not have caught that trade, you may not have seen this trade, you may not 
have seen it as we're describing here because obviously we have the beneﬁt of hindsight. 
But let's assume for a moment we're going to go through the characteris Ɵcs of what we just 
outlined in the beginning of this teaching. What we have to look for is higher Ɵme frame 
displacement in price. 
 
That means there is clear evidence that there is a large en Ɵty entering the marketplace. And 
the reason why we know that is because if this is a daily chart, daily charts are not going to 
move that dynamic without sponsorship behind it by banks or large ins ƟtuƟons or big equity 
traders. Again, the reason why we focus on the daily chart is because that's where the banks 
are trading oﬀ of. Those levels are key to those ins ƟtuƟonal level traders. So when we see 
this, obviously we have to go back to where did that move begin. Everything has to have an 
origin, so we go back to the beginning of that price swing. That higher Ɵme frame price 
displacement has to have a root, a price level at which we can classify as an ins ƟtuƟonal 

--- Page 187 ---

187 
 
sponsorship level, in other words, where everything started from. So if we can arrive at that, 
we can break down the marketplace and wait for another opportunity should it get down to 
that level again. 
 
That comes in a way of this order block the cursor points to in the screenshot above. We’re 
using the body of the candle. Price comes down and hits that level as shown in the 
screenshot below: 
 
Now, again, to iden Ɵfy insƟtuƟonal sponsorship in a par Ɵcular segment of price ac Ɵon, you 
need to see immediate dynamic response.  If it's lethargic, if it's not willing to move right 
away, that means there is no ins ƟtuƟonal orders in that area, so therefore if you're in a trade 
and you see that lackluster ac Ɵvity, the ﬁrst thing you should be thinking is either reduce 
risk, cut the posi Ɵon in half, or just completely bail on the trade. You can always re-enter at 
another Ɵme. You can always go back in on another con ƟnuaƟon paƩern, but do not force 
yourself to come to marry a idea that it has to be just because you entered the trade and the 
trade idea doesn't show you evidence that it wants to move in your favor dynamically. Don't 

--- Page 188 ---

188 
 
ever regret or feel bad about wan Ɵng to collapse that trade, because even if it moves in your 
favor aŌer you collapse it, if you have the characteris Ɵcs that we're describing here in this 
teaching in your trade and you start seeing it, chances are you're probably not in a good 
mood. If you're on the right side of the marketplace, the market's going to move dynamically 
immediately as soon as you get in. If you are oﬀside, you're going to see either the market 
hauling and hauling and back forth, you know stalling, and then ul Ɵmately you know 
reversing on you. That's the worst scenario. I'd rather have my losers be immediate, you 
know, show me that there's an evidence that I'm on the wrong side of the marketplace and 
I'm oﬀside, but some Ɵmes it won't happen. Some Ɵmes it'll be really lethargic and they'll 
start to squeeze on you slowly and then just about when you realize you're on the wrong 
side then they'll accelerate towards your stop or you know if you don't have a stop it really 
hurts worse, but that's why we use stop loss orders.  
At the current posi Ɵon of price, it should see a responsiveness on the upside so we’re going 
to start looking for signs and evidences of ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship there because we 
already iden Ɵﬁed an area where price should see returning to buying again because it has a 
strong willingness to wanna be bought up at the order block we iden Ɵﬁed earlier and we’re 
back to that level again so we should see upside momentum or if not for anything else a 
short term that we can actually trade and take some oﬀ of.  
So focussing on the bullish order block, that’s where the ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship is going to 
begin: 
 
And it comes in a way of a bullish order block. So we have this idea and we take this 
informaƟon we can transpose all these levels down to a lower Ɵmeframe but I’m going to 

--- Page 189 ---

189 
 
build on this idea with this Ɵmeframe here
 
So we got one and number two of the criteria when we’re looking for ins ƟtuƟonal 
sponsorship: We see higher Ɵmeframe displacement and we see price trading back down 
into a discount and closing in basically returning to a fair value or back to an old area where 
it was bought the last Ɵme. 
The next level is where’s the short term buy liquidity? That means the buyers that would be 
above where current price is.  
From the current price ac Ɵon,where is the logical area where we’d expect to see the banks 
want to unload those long posi Ɵons? If they are going to buy at current price,where would 
there be an ideal scenario for them to want to sell those long posi Ɵons? Well, we have short 
term highs at points 9 and 8 but we also have this old swing back there at point 7.  
At current market price(point 10), if we see a willingness to go up,we have to take our 
posiƟons oﬀ at logical areas. So we want to see the willingness to see the market run back 
up into these short term highs at points 9 and 8 and ul Ɵmately we want to see the high at 
point 7 as well retraded to.  
If the market can come back above the old high at point 7,that’s showing a willingness to 
hold for higher prices. So if they are going to hold it to point 7, what would be the next level 

--- Page 190 ---

190 
 
on this chart that you would consider for unloading long posi Ɵons by the banks? 
 
Well, above the old high at point 7, there’s buy stop liquidity obviously as we noted earlier. 
So above the marketplace we have buyers that would be willing to buy at point 7 because  
they have a short posi Ɵon at point 8 and again, it’s at market eﬃciency paradigm , you have 
to think in terms of the market as the market maker so there’s going to be buyers at point 7 
so if you’re going to be a book maker at the bank and you are buying your net long on your 
book down there at point 10. You want to unload where? 10 pips, 15 pips up? No, obviously 
not. That you can't move your posi Ɵons in and out; you're controlling such a large book in a 
large equity base. You want to get it out of up here at point 7 because there’s going to be a 
pool of buy stops there: 
 
And price obviously goes up there and hits it. Now here is the thing; as price hits that level 
right up there,what’s it doing? It’s pairing orders with buy stops. So that buy stop liquidity at 
point  7 is gone so what’s the next level of ins ƟtuƟonal order ﬂow to suggest price may go 
to? That old high at point 2.  

--- Page 191 ---

191 
 
So now, think for a moment. We have a daily chart here where sell stops were ran out, price 
was willing to go higher, came back down in that same area here, they bought it up, ran an 
area of buy stop liquidity and we have an old high back here at point 2 s Ɵll. If it's going to go 
up here(at point 2),that means it’s going to be very unlikely for it to come all the way back 
down to this level again(the bullish orderblock at point 12).  
Here is why that would be unlikely: We’ve seen the low at point 3 where market rallies 
higher from and we’ve seen the lower low at point 6 where price went below the low at 
point 3, it then rallies up to point 7 and came down to point 10(right to the bullish order 
block at point 6) and they bought it again. Now, this Ɵme we were able to move about the 
old high at point 7 so market structure on the daily chart has now changed to bullishness.  
The whole premise behind this teaching is ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship should protect price 
from ever coming back down into the bullish orderblock at point 12.  
 
So we’re going to take a look at the whole thing in the form of a 4H chart: 
 
So we're going to take a look at that whole thing in the form of a four hour chart as price 
came down hit that level here and gave us that same fractal idea trading below an old low. 
Okay because that's what we saw on the daily chart price goes just below that old low here 
and rallies oﬀ. Now think for a second what's actually occurring here, what's actually 
happening? What's this right here, what's these two down candles forming? Well, it's 
dropping price, but it's dropping at a speciﬁc level or going into a higher Ɵme frame support 
level. What is it, what's that create when it does that? It's a bullish order block; it's down 
price or down candles at an an Ɵcipated level of support, or we expect to see ins ƟtuƟon 
order ﬂow send price higher. So in other words, we're expec Ɵng, we're an ƟcipaƟng that that 
bullishness in price. Obviously, we have buy stop liquidity above this short term high, that 
short-term high, and ul Ɵmately we have those buy stop liquidity res Ɵng above the high that 
we were just mapping out earlier. Each Ɵme the market goes up and takes out a level of buy 
side liquidity, we don't collapse the trade en Ɵrely, we don't look for reversal pa Ʃerns, we do 

--- Page 192 ---

192 
 
not look for divergence and indicators. Every Ɵme we get to an old high here, we're looking 
for a willingness to keep moving higher to run these longer term buy stops.  
 
As price takes that ﬁrst level out, those buy stops are gone. What's missing now? The 
liquidity in the form of buy stops above that short-term high. So what we'd be expec Ɵng to 
see is price con Ɵnuously look to go higher to go a Ōer the next level buy stops and that 
comes in the way of those old highs here, but not losing sight of the buy stops above that 
higher high. 
 
Price surges higher, runs through, takes out the second level by stop liquidity. Now, no Ɵce 
what's happened here: while it was a dynamic surge through that second level buy side 
liquidity, it fails to go back to that old high. This is classic price ac Ɵon. Now, think about what 
we've talked about earlier. We had the original point of which the price swing began or the 
origin, then we have the ﬁrst area or the ﬁrst scale of that price swing in here. Then price 
goes up and now we're ge ƫng just about to the point which the equilibrium price point 
would come in the way in the forma Ɵon for analysis. What we would look for, the fact that 

--- Page 193 ---

193 
 
price has an unwillingness to go lower, that would be evidence of what? Ins ƟtuƟonal 
sponsorship. In order, we're not seeing them allow price go lower; that's basically all I'm 
saying in clear terms. So again, those buy stops are gone and we're focusing primarily on the 
move jusƟﬁed by price ac Ɵon. Is it going to s Ɵll go for those buy stops above that old high 
here? 
 
And ulƟmately, it runs up and snaps through that old high; you can see price ending that at 
the terminus. But no Ɵce what we have here: price has moved in grades, and it has moved up 
into what would be deemed as equilibrium on the daily chart. So, let's take a closer look of 
why this was such an easy expecta Ɵon and how ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship could aid you in 
your price ac Ɵon study when you see buy stop liquidity as your targets. What things should 
we see in price ac Ɵon to help support these ideas?  
We’re gonna take a look at this in the form of lower Ɵmeframe chart. And again outlining 
why the buy stop liquidity is ran out.  
 
 

--- Page 194 ---

194 
 
 
Okay, we’re looking at the 4H chart of that price swing in the screenshot right above: We’re 
going to look at ins ƟtuƟonal order ﬂow throughout the en Ɵre price swing.You already 
probably no Ɵced there’s some blue line segments on there so we’re going to start talking 
about some super secret sauce. 
 
 
We’re now looking at a 60 minute chart in the screenshot right above and i want you to take 
a look at the reac Ɵons that happen from the blue line segments and i want you to look at it 
real close. Those blue lines are one of the coolest things I discovered about price ac Ɵon and 
not only is it indica Ɵve of what future price direc Ɵon may be but it also us prognos ƟcaƟon 
for future setups. It doesn’t just give us a right now what should be support or resistance. It 

--- Page 195 ---

195 
 
gives us a future prognos ƟcaƟon for where setups may unfold at a later Ɵme. 
 
So let’s zoom in a li Ʃle bit and I’m going to add again the levels on those short term highs 
and we’re going to note them as the old highs so any Ɵme you see that li Ʃle gray horizontal 
line segment, what we’re actually drawing your a ƩenƟon to is these old highs here and 
that’s gonna be in the form of those old buy stops. 
 
So again, you can see there’s gray lines here (in the screenshot above) and all that’s doing is 
just delinea Ɵng those old highs in the form of price. Now i don’t want you focussing on price 
numbers or anything like that I just want you focussing primarily on price ac Ɵon alone.The 
delivery of price is all we’re interested in talking about speciﬁcally for this teaching.  
And we have the beginning of the move of the move at point 0, it trades down to point 
1(running below the previous low). All the down candles between points 0 and 1 is building 
what that 4H order block. It’s a bullish order block beginning right there so that high on that 
candle(the highest candle at point 0) begins the order block that would be deemed a bullish 
order block on the 4H chart. But because this is a smaller Ɵmeframe, we’re gonna have a lot 

--- Page 196 ---

196 
 
more candles obviously. I want you to taka a look at the blue line segments. What I’m 
delineaƟng there is the opening price at midnight in new York.  
If we suspect that price is going to be bullish, we can look at the opening price at midnight 
new York and if we’re expec Ɵng a price to move higher, what we see in the form of 
insƟtuƟonal sponsorship is price when it goes below the opening price at midnight should 
be accumulated.  So here's the opening price later in the day this is New York. Price trades 
higher. Okay, here's the opening price at midnight the next day we're not concerned about 
the movement above it. We want to see what happens when price goes below it. Okay, now 
obviously going below the opening price here we have what what's all this. This is a liquidity 
void. Okay. Price is going to do what return back down into an order block. Price does what 
the very next day it opens trades lower and does what rallies. The next day we open we 
trade lower and then we rally. The next day we open small li Ʃle move below the opening 
price an ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship steps in again and sends price higher. The next day the 
opening at New York's midnight candle trades lower again and what happens ins ƟtuƟonal 
sponsorship steps in one more Ɵme and they buy it again. Rallies up we start moving into 
consolida Ɵon and we'll look at each individual stage and price ac Ɵon as we look at it here: 
 
The ﬁrst one is we have that bullish order block and price comes back down it snaps right 
back into it right here. Five pips added to the level you could be a buyer at that point. Again 
this is in the London Ɵme frame. The next one here is down candle rate at the opening price. 
In other words when we ﬁnd the opening price and then we're going to be looking for a 
down candle. That down candle should be seeing capitaliza Ɵon of new longs. We see that 
come to frui Ɵon when the down candle is violated. Okay so let me go back to this for a 
moment. We have this down candle here this becomes an older block that's bullish when 
this candle trades through it. So at a later Ɵme when it hits it here you could be a buyer and 
it has to be below the opening price of that day. Now it can happen during London or it can 
happen in New York either one is s Ɵll good viable trade. The next day here we see what 
price trade below the opening price. We have a small li Ʃle order block here and this one 
here as well but we're going to say we're not going to worry about that one because we're 
trading at equilibrium. We're going to wait for an order block to form which we see right 

--- Page 197 ---

197 
 
here. So between this high here and this low here we're essen Ɵally trading at equilibrium. So 
when we're at equilibrium price points like that we want to see price give us an order block 
to give us the jus ƟﬁcaƟon for wan Ɵng to expand higher and away f rom the equilibrium. We 
see the down candle here draw that out in Ɵme price hits it here add ﬁve pips to that level 
we could be a buyer. Price takes oﬀ. We have the opening price here trades disciple out here. 
The down candle at that level. Now no Ɵce I'm using a down candle prior to that new day. 
That's okay you got to use the previous day's session some Ɵme. The down candle here is 
where it's being capitalized they're buying up more of it. So the ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship 
should be jus Ɵﬁed by saying what? The down candle being violated on the upside which you 
see it here. So when price comes back down it doesn't come right down to on price. I don't 
want to give you every possible you know perfect scenario. And then we see another 
opening price trades down but we get a down candle here and it's violated on the upside. So 
this becomes a bullish order block. So you could be a buyer here. So now think in terms of 
Power Three. Power Three is the concept I teach as it relates to the daily open high low close 
bar. So in other words a Ɵme frame of daily char Ɵng. If your minimum trading is trying to 
capture the bulk of that daily range you want to be buying near the opening on an up day 
and exiƟng on the close and obviously it sounds like you know everyone sh ould know that 
but the problem is is 99% of everyone doesn't know how to do that. Okay it's easy to hear 
conceptually say oh yeah of course it's obvious but try doing it. So what I have taught is 
Power Three is when you're bullish you want to be buying near or below the opening price. 
This scenario does that. Every Ɵme it gets you either at or below or very close to the opening 
price and allows the the range to expand for you and you get a higher close. The reason why 
we're expec Ɵng each day to have a hig her close each day moving from a low up to a higher 
high close from a low to higher close. A low up to a higher close. A low up to a higher close. 
A low up to a higher close. And again a low up to a higher close. Ul Ɵmate low to a higher 
close and we start a new day here we can't see it on this chart yet but look what's 
happening. Price is being drawn up to that ﬁrst old high and look what it does once it gets 
her up that old high it starts staying sideways it's consolida Ɵng. Okay. Tradi Ɵonal support 
resistance players will see that old high as resistance and they'll want to sell short. So what's 
going to happen they're going to sell short sell short sell short and they'll see what price go 
nowhere and their buy stops will be just above this old high and then you run through them 
again they come back down capitalize new longs and then extends it up where to the old 
high here the second one and what's happening there? Same scenario they give you a 
reason to expect this thing to go lower because it's resistance old resistance. Okay should be 
sold that's what classic textbooks say. So what's going to happen is they're going to take a 
short posi Ɵon put their stop loss another buy stop right above this old high they take those 
posiƟons out right here. So they' re not going to see what any lower prices but we send price 
--- Page 198 ---

198 
 
back down again into this old order block. 
 
So price in here, that's where we just le Ō oﬀ at, price comes back down into that order block 
here right there, rallies up and now this is where we stop. We stop short of the ul Ɵmate 
terminus or the objec Ɵve of the price swing. It has a retracement and  goes lower. Now this 
retracement lower will get everybody excited thinking it's been a high formed, okay? So 
dollar yen should be trading lower, get short dollar yen, everyone's going to have that on the 
forums, everyone's going to be talking about on Twi Ʃer for you know social media, 
everything. And it's only just going to go back down to this order block over here, okay? The 
same capitalized order block that we saw on this ini Ɵal run here. Why is this one being used 
again? Because we had this old area of insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow in the form of the old high. At 
this point that's when classic support resistance works because why, we have an unfulﬁlled 
objecƟve up here with that old higher high. So price comes in, accumulates that same 
posiƟon here, consolida Ɵon, back to the consolida Ɵon, expands up oﬀ of an order block. But 
I want you to think about all these down candles in here, all these down candles on a 15 
minute Ɵme frame creates a larger order block on a higher Ɵme frame. Draw that out in 
Ɵme, that's the reason why we're seeing price trade here. So yes, the market opens here, 
trades lower, closes in the range here is liquidity void, back into the order block here, and 
then we have the opening here. It doesn't go lower, can't do anything with this yet, so it has 
to expand. So we can't do anything with a buy on this day here, we wait to the next day. The 
opening, price trades back down, closes in its void, back to an order block here, and the 
beginning of all these down candles, that's the buy here. The next one, here's the opening 
price here, it trades just below it here, but it's dipping into this down candle which is the 
order block from the previous day in New York. Okay, so I want you to think about where 
these order blocks are forming. You're referencing old bullish order blocks from the previous 
day or maybe three sessions ago, and you can buy old bullish order blocks because they're 
going to do what, recapitalize them. That's ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship. They're defending 
speciﬁc levels. W hy should they be defending these par Ɵcular levels? Because their vested 
interest is to see it go above that old higher high, where they're ul Ɵmately looking to try to 
take out all of their long posi Ɵons. Yes, they're going to scale out some here, they' re going to 
scale out some here, they may scale out some about here and here, but ul Ɵmately they're 

--- Page 199 ---

199 
 
trying to drive it up here because that's where a large degree of buyers are going to be. And 
price ulƟmately trades down oﬀ that candle here and rallies up and ends at terminus. So I 
want you to think about when you're looking at price ac Ɵon, everyone asks for what's the 
order block to use. Well, it starts with understanding where the market should go, okay? And 
that starts by looking at what we talked about in September which you should be focusing 
on right now. Down candles right before the up moves, up candles right before the down 
moves, looking for liquidity voids, looking for old lows to be violated and then rallied oﬀ of, 
that's a turtle soup, or an old high to be rallied through and then rejected and trade so Ōer, 
that's a turtle soup sell. All these ideas, okay, begin to start taking shape in your in your price 
acƟon study. But you have to use speciﬁc generic things like Ɵme. Every order block that we 
refer to here is linked to a London session or a New York session, and they're happening 
from the previous day or a couple days ago. But the idea is they should be capitalized again 
because there is an underlying interest for the market maker to see price go higher, so 
they're not going to allow much in way of retracement. But if it retraces, it's going to go back 
to logical areas in the form of bullish order blocks or running an old low. Now the lows can 
be again the same way, an old previous New York session or London low. They'll take out the 
sell stops below the lows and then rally it up. The same thing can be seen with the bullish 
order blocks. You want to be focusing on the London session and the New York session and 
using these down candles in those previous sessions to give you new buying opportuni Ɵes. If 
you're seeing that come to frui Ɵon in your charts, you are seeing and iden Ɵfying insƟtuƟonal 
sponsorship. Every one of your successful trades will have this hallmark, the characteris Ɵc of 
seeing these recapitalized order blocks and seeing the moves. You gravitate towards these 
higher Ɵme frame liquidity pools in the form of buy stops when you're long. When you have 
that it makes trading very easy. It's it's allows you to relax and not get so freaked out when 
you see these retracements like here, okay? All this is is right before the last push up to go to 
where ulƟmately the price may go. Now I don't want to sell the idea that it's always going to 
go to your levels, okay? Because you're going to have to do a lot of learning, you know 
studying these ideas, but I want you to focus primar ily on the characteris Ɵcs I've shown you 
here. Speciﬁc order blocks that take place at London and New York, okay? They will help you 
discern whether there is ins ƟtuƟonal sponsorship in your par Ɵcular trade. If you see the lack 
of that, chances are you're probably oﬀside and you're going to want to reduce the risk on 
the trade or maybe go to the sidelines and wait for another opportunity. So un Ɵl the next 
Ɵme wish you good luck and good trading.  
 