--- Page 169 ---
169 
 
 
Month 3: 
Video 2: InsƟtuƟonal Order Flow - What Makes It Easy To Know: 
 
Okay folks, welcome back. This is lesson two of November or the third month of the ict 
mentorship. We’re going to talk about insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow and what makes it easy to see. 
And we’re going to be building a liƩle bit on what we just menƟoned in the previous lesson 
and we’ll be using that EURUSD example. 
And here’s that orderblock(the one the red arrow points to in the screenshot above) we 
showed earlier in lesson one. The idea is if we see what we are seeing on the monthly chart, 
we can go into the marketplace and anƟcipate an ideal scenario to unfold in the area marked 
with the yellow-like color as show in the screenshot right below: 
 
 


--- Page 170 ---
170 
 
As we menƟoned in lesson one, we discussed that there was going to be a high probability 
of stops resƟng below the lows at point 1. 
What i want you to focus on at point 1 is to look at how the bodies of the candles basically 
merge at that same general area. I want you to ignore the wicks.  
And by having that in mind, all below the lows in here at point 1, there’s going to be a large 
pocket of liquidity in the form of sell stops. 
Now if we’re looking at the monthly chart like this and we think that there’s going to be a 
high level of sensiƟvity up there because price comes back to point 2 and the market is most 
likely going to trade lower and seek the liquidity below the lows at point 1. 
Now again, when we’re looking at insƟtuƟonal orderﬂow, the idea is thinking like the market 
eﬃciency paradigm. You are the market maker and so what you are looking for is where the 
maximum level of liquidity in relaƟonship to where markets have traded from and where 
they are presently. 
Well, the market has traded higher to point 2, so from point 2, where is the highest level of 
liquidity? If it’s going to go higher, it would be above point 0 but we had this void between 
points 0 and 1 which we closed in so the market has now rebalanced from a point at which 
they sold ﬁrst, it moved quickly away and came back up and closed in that range that 
created by all those down black candles. 
Next, we have a run down to point 3 clearing the stops at point 1. The market will run up 
from point 3 because it’s already absorbed all the liquidity down there at point 1 and yes, for 
completeness sake, it returned back to a bullish orderblock (the one the cursor points to at 
point 4 as shown in screenshot below): 
 
 
So the market is going to seek the liquidity on the upside so where does that reside 
next? 
 


--- Page 171 ---
171 
 
Answer: The up candle prior to the down movement at point 2,that’s where they sold 
the last Ɵme and look, we created another liquidity void. 
 
So there has to be the market oﬀering on the buyside. They oﬀered on the sell side 
so that balanced it. It has to be green candles or up candles in this case. 
 
Now obviously we always look at the middle of the up candle(mean threshold) and you can 
see how the bodies of the candles respect that as shown in screenshot below: There’s 
always going to be that extra liƩle outrun on price with the wicks and I’ve menƟoned this in 
many many instances over the last six and a half years teaching forex. 
 
 
From point 5, where do we then expect to see price go to next? Well, the largest 
area of liquidity was going to be resƟng below the low at point 3. Look closely, just as we 
showed at point 1 with the bodies of the candles, we’re going to look at the bodies of the 


--- Page 172 ---
172 
 
candles at point 3: 
 
 
So classic technical analysis will say the the longest wick(at point 3) is the low and what I 
teach is it’s the bodies of the candles where all the volume is(the insƟtuƟonal 
volume).There’s a diﬀerence now,the wick is always going to be directly related to retail. 
Because we’re looking at a retail plaƞorm, most instances you are going to see the wick is 
generally comprised of retail pricing. So we allow the wicks to provide us a erroneous price 
delivery or extreme price delivery but we want to do most of our analysis around the bodies 
of the candles. 
So that means if you have the bodies of the candles deﬁned at point 3 as the real low and 
allowing the wick to be viewed as retail, if we scrub that over to the right side at point 6(as 
shown in screenshot below): 


--- Page 173 ---
173 
 
You can see how price trades just below the bodies of the candle as it would in terms of 
seeking the truest form of volume from an insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow standpoint. 
The point of what I’m showing here is once you understand where the market will most 
likely reach for, and this is the monthly chart. 
 
NOTE: AT POINT 6, PRICE GOES THROUGH THE BODIES OF THE CANDLES AT POINT 3 AND 
NOT THE WICKS. IT STABS THROUGH IT TO GO BELOW THE BODIES OF THE CANDLES,IT 
DOESN’T NECESSARILY HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE WICKS. WE ONLY NEED IT TO GO BELOW 
THE BODIES OF THE CANDLE. 
 
So if we have a set up like this on the monthly chart: 
 
 


--- Page 174 ---
174 
 
All we have to do is break the market down into a weekly: 
  
 
So now we have the price shown in weekly basis, the red boxes show areas of bearish 
market condiƟons and the blue boxes show areas of bullish market condiƟons. 
So now what we’ve done is we’ve mapped out this enƟre EURUSD from mid 2008 all the way 
to mid 2012 just by understanding what the monthly levels on insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow will 
give us. And understand those points of reference I showed you in September. What to focus 
on, because that’s the recipe for all the trading you’re ever going to want to do. 
You’ve to ﬁnd them on a higher Ɵmeframe and arrive at where the higher Ɵmeframe charts 
are going to seek liquidity because this is where the large funds have their money and where 
the large money is found on the fund level. That’s where the banks are going to reprice to, 
it’s not for the retail people because you’re too small. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 175 ---
175 
 
STUDY THOROUGHY THE WEEKLY CHART BELOW AND SEE POSSBLE AREAS WE COULD HAVE 
TRADED FROM AND WHICH LEVELS WE COULD HAVE TAKEN OUR PROFITS AT, WHERE STOPS 
ARE TAKEN,ETC.: 
 
 
 
So if you start with your monthly chart and you break down into the weekly chart,we can go 
down into the daily chart now, you’ll see a lot more deﬁniƟon on the daily chart. See how 
price respects the marked weekly and monthly levels on the daily Ɵmeframes as shown in 
screenshots right below: 


--- Page 176 ---
176 
 
 
 


--- Page 177 ---
177 
 


--- Page 178 ---
178 
 
 
 
So what you’re doing is what insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow is. It’s the seeking of large insƟtuƟonal 
liquidity and that’s going to be found on the monthly and the weekly and you see that being 
traded into on the daily. That’s why I tell you on the daily chart and again this is what we’re 
looking at daily.The daily chart will always seek the fund level insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow, in 
other words the stops that are found on the monthly and weekly charts, you are going to 
have all your signals to have the greatest magnitude and biggest moves that always take 
place are going to be found on that monthly and weekly basis because that’s where all the 
large whales are. Okay, when I say whales, I'm talking about big funds, large funds. Okay, and 
when they have money at risk, that's where the market's going to go, because that's orders 
that they can counterparty with. The banks cannot counterparty with you and I. We're just 
not big enough. Even collecƟvely, we're not big enough. But the funds, because they're 
controlling billions and billions of dollars, and they're—that's where the money's at. So if you 
can ﬁnd the levels on the monthly, weekly chart, keep them on your on your daily chart, 


--- Page 179 ---
179 
 
you'll be able to see all these major shiŌs in price that someƟmes jump oﬀ at you aŌer the 
fact and you wish you would have known they were coming. Now you know how to see 
them by transposing them from the monthly to weekly into your daily chart. If you do your 
trading around these levels, you will see every signiﬁcant price swing that they ever 
transpires on price. You'll see them coming before they get there, and you'll also know 
relaƟve to insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow where the stops or liquidity is above the marketplace. 
When you're ready to buy it or when you expect a bullish scenario to unfold, you'll already 
know where the market should be reaching for, should it take oﬀ and start trading higher. 
When it goes up to a level of resistance or some kind of bearishness, before you even sell 
short, you're going to know where it's going to be reaching for, which is the sell stops below 
the recent lows or a bullish order block. And by having that idea how the market will 
conƟnuously look and seek liquidity—it's not our liquidity, it's not our stops it's looking for, 
it's looking for the stops found on the monthly and the weekly and daily—because that's 
where the whales reside. That's where the large funds reside, and that's what pushes price 
around. Understanding that, that's why the market will go to these levels, because it's 
wanƟng to take those parƟcipants either out of the marketplace or draw them in as 
counterparƟes to their intended purpose, either being a buyer counterparty to sell stops or 
to be a seller counterparty to buy stops. And that's the nature of insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow. So 
with that, guys, I wish good luck and good trading. 

