

=== PAGE 261 ===
261 
 
Month 4: 
Video 1: Interest Rate Eﬀects On Currency Trades
 
Okay, now in this module we're going to talk about smart money accumulaƟon and 
distribuƟon, fundamentally speaking, and that comes by way of our understanding and, 
hopefully, your acceptance to the fact that interest rates are the single most inﬂuenƟal 
driving force behind market moves. Understanding interest rate shiŌs and changes can assist 
you in selecƟng trades. Technical analysis and key interest rates can unlock professional 
money management movement. Technical analysis of key interest rates can unlock 
professional money movement. Interest rate triads provide a visual depicƟon of smart 
money accumulaƟon and distribuƟon. 
 
All right, so what are interest rate triads? Well, you have to start with a 30-year bond, which 
is the key long-term interest rate benchmark; the 10-year note, which is an intermediate 
term interest rate; and the 5-year note, which is a short-term interest rate. Now, these three 
interest rate markets are all futures markets. They're traded on the futures market 
exchanges, and by looking at the price acƟon of these three in relaƟonship to one another, it 
will unlock a lot of the things that most of the Ɵme evade you when you're looking for price 
acƟon type setups. But overlaying or comparaƟve analysis on these three interest rates 
unlocks price acƟon. Failure swings at opportunisƟc Ɵmes can validate insƟtuƟonal order 
ﬂow. 
 
Now, what do I mean by that? Well, in the very ﬁrst teaching of this mentorship, the whole 
content delivery of September 2016, I gave you speciﬁc things to focus on. Those things that 
we talked about in September are going to be ampliﬁed and be able to highlight much more 
probable trade scenarios aŌer going through this parƟcular module. 
 
 


=== PAGE 262 ===
262 
 
 
 Okay so what does smart money look like in price and what's it look like how do you know 
when smart money is moving in the marketplace? Well ﬁrst let's take a look at what it looks 
like in bearish condiƟons. Obviously there has to be some diametrically opposed view, and 
you have to start by looking at a base asset or benchmark, and in bearish condiƟons that 
base asset or benchmark would be making higher highs. Now the base asset or benchmark 
could be the Dow Jones Industrial if we're trading stocks, it could be the Dollar Index if we're 
trading currencies, it could be the CRB index if we're trading commodiƟes. The smart money 
distribuƟon can be seen by comparable assets that are closely correlated that are making 
lower highs. The reason why this is occurring is because the smart money is heavily 
distribuƟng while the base asset or benchmark is moving higher. The public or less informed 
traders will be looking at the market making higher highs for instance on like the Dow Jones 
Industrial, they will aƩribute that as this is underlying strength so therefore the market 
should keep going higher. But if the general market averages start making lower highs, that's 
actually indicaƟng their smart money distribuƟon underway and it's not new buying it 
sending the price higher, but heavy distribuƟon. In bullish condiƟons, the opposite is seen. 
You have to have obviously a base asset or benchmark to compare and assume that the base 
asset or benchmark is moving lower, and it's going to be forming lower lows. In smart money 
accumulaƟon will be seen with that condiƟon being met with higher lows. And again using 
the analogy that we just used a minute ago assuming that the base asset or benchmark is 
the Dow Jones Industrial it could be making lower lows and by all standards looking at it the 
public or less informed traders would aƩribute that as underlying weakness so therefore 
stock should be conƟnually going lower. But a closer look we'll see that some stocks are not 
making lower lows and that is showing a graphic depicƟon or visual representaƟon of smart 
money accumulaƟon because those stocks will making higher lows and the reason why this 
is occurring is because if they're heavily buying the price will not be permiƩed to go lower 
because that is the basis of supply and demand. If there's a high demand for something it 
doesn't go on discount it goes at a steady or higher price and many Ɵmes at a higher price so 
to accumulate or buy more of that it will be forced upon the buyer to pay a premium on it it 
will not ever it won't ever go to a discount and the opposite is seen with the bearish 
condiƟons when the underlying base asset or benchmark is moving higher the reason why 


=== PAGE 263 ===
263 
 
that heavy distribuƟon is taking place is because they're selling it they don't want to hold on 
to it for higher prices because their view from a smart money's perspecƟve is this recent 
rally higher on the base asset or benchmark or in this case would be represented by an 
example like the Dow Jones. Just because the Dow Jones is making higher highs doesn't 
mean always that's underlying strength it could be just a heavy distribuƟon cycle and you'll 
see that with heavy numbers of stocks failing to make higher highs or the S&P 500 and the 
Nasdaq composite index may be failing to make a higher high when that happens that is a 
warning sign that you're probably in a distribuƟon cycle. 
 
 
 
Okay, interest rate triad. Again, we start with the 30-year Treasury bond market, the 10-year 
note, and the 5-year note. Okay, by overlaying these three markets, you'll be able to 
highlight when accumulaƟon-distribuƟon is in the interest rate market. And when this takes 
place, it represents smart money movement or how you as a trader can view smart money 
in the form of seeing where accumulaƟon and buying or distribuƟon and selling is actually 
occurring in the marketplace. The three interest rates should conﬁrm each higher high or 
lower low at moments when the US Dollar Index is at a signiﬁcant price point. Failure swings 
highlight smart money parƟcipaƟon in the markets and trading opportuniƟes are validated. 
For instance, let's look at the top; we see this graphic depicƟon. Now, this could be the 30-
year Treasury, it could be the 10-year, or it could be the 5-year. There's no demand on either 
one of these three being the failed low or low. You just need one to break that paƩern of 
moving lower. When it happens, it invariably will show smart money parƟcipaƟon in the 
marketplace because large volumes will be moving by way of their entries and exits. It 
causes that real supply and demand factor to take place in pricing, so therefore the model 
will show underlying strength in one of the interest rates; in other words, they won't make a 
lower low. The one on the boƩom most obviously makes a lower low, just like the one on the 
top graphically, but the one in the middle that's highlighted in blue, that is represenƟng a 
failure swing. So when that happens, what we're seeing is there's an interest rate shiŌ; so 


=== PAGE 264 ===
264 
 
there's going to be a shiŌ in the marketplace. And if this occurs at a moment when you're 
idenƟfying a potenƟal insƟtuƟonal order reference point or focal point in the US Dollar 
Index, that conﬁrms that parƟcular idea. For instance, if you're looking for a bullish order 
block on the Dollar Index, if you're looking for a buy at a bullish order block or supposed 
support to come into the marketplace for the Dollar Index, you would see an opposite of this 
indicaƟon here. It would see a higher high, probably on two of the interest rates, but a lower 
high on one of them; and what that would do is it would conﬁrm the bullish order block for 
the Dollar Index. 
 
Okay, so when you're looking at the interest rate markets—now every chart I'm showing you 
here you can get this at barchart.com, it's free, it doesn't cost you any money to get that 
charƟng service from them—now, looking at a chart like this, it's not easily ascertained what 
it is it's supposed to be telling you, and this is the reason why it evades the majority. Simply 
because we can show a chart ploƫng open, high, low, and close on these speciﬁc interest 
rate markets doesn't always indicate understanding. And speciﬁcally going through the 30-
year, the 10-year, and the 5-year, like we just did, having these on your charts, your analysis 


=== PAGE 265 ===
265 
 
of the markets if you break them down in the right manner, just simply having a chart 
doesn't do it; it's not found with the way you do tradiƟonal technical analysis, so you have to 
look at things on a comparaƟve basis. 
So what do i mean about that? Let’s take a closer look and we’ll look at this move in the 
dollar index. It just took place the week of this recording(see it in screenshot right below): 
 
You see the dollar index came down into that 99.50 level and had an aggressive rally away. 
We talked about the dollar being bullish in this area and the market moved higher all week 
as a response to that strong move oﬀ of 99.50 level. 
 
But if you go back and look at the interest rate market, okay, this is the 30-year Treasury 
bond market. This is a 90-minute chart, okay, I'm looking at over about 15 to 18 days, and 
again you can do all that on barchart.com. The bond market between the ﬁŌh and the 
eighth and seventh, in other words, there was a failure swing that you can clearly see in the 
30-year bond market,then we go to the lower Ɵmeframe(as shown in screenshot below) in 


=== PAGE 266 ===
266 
 
terest rate and we’re looking at another opportunity comparing the same highs: 
 
This one is relaƟvely unchanged; we'll just say it's ﬂat to neutral. So, it didn't make a lower 
high in comparison, but it sƟll didn't make a considerable higher high either. 
 
 
And ﬁnally for the 5-year, we can see that there is clearly a higher high formed on the 5-year 
interest rate or short-term. So in the short-term curve, we made a higher run on the 5-year 
note, an unchanged high on the 10-year note, and a lower high on the 30-year. Now by itself, 
that highlights there's a shiŌ in the interest rate market. Now, what did we ﬁrst start with 
this module? That interest rates are the number one leading driver for price acƟon in 
currency markets. There's nothing else that drives markets more wild in the currencies than 
the interest rates; that's what makes the whole world go round. So if we understand that 
we're seeing a divergence between the actual underlying 5-year, 10-year, and 30-year 
interest rate markets, you can see that shiŌ is pronounced; it's you can clearly see it. You 


=== PAGE 267 ===
267 
 
don't go into looking at the bond market just for these types of scenarios; you have to have a 
predetermined idea of what the market that you're about to trade should see in terms of 
bullishness or bearishness. 
 
That brings us back to the US Dollar Index. The same reference point in Ɵme between the 
ﬁŌh and the eighth or so, we saw that the dollar index went lower, made a lower low, and it 
traded down into a signiﬁcant price level. Now this is on a closing basis and that's all you 
need, but the point is we're seeing a signiﬁcant divergence between the lower low on the 
dollar index and that of the 30-year treasury bond failing to make that higher high as it 
should have made comparably. When price moves into previous levels of insƟtuƟonal order 
ﬂow, we as traders have to anƟcipate dynamic price movement. 
 
That looks like this, and we talked about this this week in the live sessions. We had an old 
order block back in midpoint of November; it was the last down candle that had already 
been traded back down into it in November 15th one more Ɵme, and it bounced away from 


=== PAGE 268 ===
268 
 
that, but we traded all the way back down this week during the 8th of December just to get 
back into that 99.50 level, and it was strongly rejected and the market rallied hard on the 
dollar index which obviously would do what for foreign currencies? It would give us reasons 
to trust bearish order blocks, bearish turtle soups, or return back to fair value closing in big 
ranges that drop the lower; once those are closed in aŌer a retracement higher, we could 
look for conƟnuaƟon and roll over for lower prices on foreign currencies. But this previous 
order block is what you would be looking for. At that moment when price trades into that 
order block, you want to take a look at the interest rate markets to see if there's any clue 
that the smart money is working that level. So many people ask me how do I validate what 
order block to trade oﬀ of, and I just told you with this teaching: if you can see the interest 
rate divergence or interest rate triad by looking at those 30, 10, and 5-year, if there's a 
divergence between the three and price is hiƫng in a speciﬁc order block on the dollar 
index, that gives you the green light to go in and start reﬁning the idea on that trade because 
it's most likely a high probability setup. 
 
So, if we saw a bullishness for the dollar index, then obviously we would be looking for 
bearish situaƟons for the ﬁber and the euro USD. We had a level of buy stops indicated 
before the week started, and the market came all the way back up to an old reference point 
at 1.0865, which is an old low—if we go back further on your charts, I'll leave that for your 
homework. But if you take a look at what's happened here, the market rallied back above 
that 1.0815–1.0820, clearing out the buy stops, rolled all the way up through to 1.0865, 
trading back to an old low that's not shown on this chart; again, I'll leave that to you for your 
own homework. But the selling scenario was jusƟﬁed because we've seen the bullishness on 
the dollar. That's the reason why we're expecƟng the dollar to keep pressing higher this 
week all through the rest of the week, and it kept doing that, and as it relates to the foreign 
currencies, it just kept driving them lower. 


=== PAGE 269 ===
269 
 
 
And cable failed to make a higher high when Euro dollar made the higher high and Dollar 
made the lower low. So, it's not always just simply looking for a divergence in one speciﬁc 
locaƟon or one asset; you have to blend a couple things someƟmes to get to understanding 
what the smart money is doing. You can see that the market has a couple diﬀerent 
opportuniƟes to be short relaƟve to the strong dollar, but what makes that strong dollar so 
signiﬁcant is that it had a divergence in the interest rate triad. So, 30-year, 10-year, 5-year 
had a failure swing at the moment that the dollar was trading down there. So once you see 
that, it gets everything back in sync where the market's going to be driving in one direcƟon 
or another based on what direcƟon the interest rates are going. So, if the interest rate 
markets are dropping lower, that means interest rates are going to go higher, which means 
the interest rate is going to drive the Dollar Index higher. If the Dollar Index is going to go 
higher, that's going to drive foreign currencies lower, and everything ﬁts together like a cog; 
you know, all the gears come together and they start turning, everything makes sense. But it 
doesn't always work like that; someƟmes there's a shiŌ that takes place on a longer-term 
basis, and it may mess up things on a short-term Ɵme basis, and you'll have to allow some of 
those things to come up in your trading and just trust the fact that over a long period of 
Ɵme, these scenarios will repeat themselves, and when it does, it'll give you a plethora of 


=== PAGE 270 ===
270 
 
trading opportuniƟes. 
 
All right, so what do we do with this informaƟon? You know, what can we do to build some 
kind of an acƟon plan so we can use the informaƟon in a context where it helps us, not just 
talk about it in hindsight? Well, we have to use the points of focus taught in the ﬁrst month 
of the mentorship. When price acƟon trades to a focus point like an order block, a liquidity 
pool, a liquidity void, or fair value gap, you refer to the interest rate triad and the dollar 
index; this will conﬁrm smart money is behind your trade idea. If there is no obvious 
indicaƟon that they are moving large funds, pass on the trade idea and look for new ones 
that do. So, what do I mean by that? If you're looking to be a buyer of dollar, the interest 
rate market is going to show you the divergence that I showed here today with a failed 
higher high among all three. They should all be moving higher highs if the dollar is moving 
lower, but if we see a bearish tone on a dollar index, this is what you would see: you would 
see the interest rate markets making a lower low, another one making a lower low, but 
eventually one of them will fail to make that lower low. And what that'll do, that'll validate 
the sell signals that you're geƫng in the dollar index at a bearish order block, at an old high 
that's been ran out for a liquidity pool, or trading up into a fair value gap closing in a range. 
Then you can expect to see that dollar roll lower and interest rates on these three to start 
trading higher in their price, which means interest rates will be dropping, because as these 
interest rates on charts as they move up or trend higher, that's actually interest rates 
declining, and that's going to be bearish for dollar. So, hopefully, this has given you one more 
insight to understanding how to validate the order block, liquidity pools, and liquidity voids 
and fair value gaps. It's not simply just looking for every up candle to sell into or every down 
candle to buy into; you want to look behind the scenes and get closer to the underpinnings 
of the marketplace, because the smart money is going to make a very clear ﬁngerprint when 
they're in there, and it's going to be seen in a shiŌ in the interest rate markets like this, and it 
validates your setups. So, unƟl I talk to you next Ɵme, I wish good luck and good trading. 
