--- Page 146 ---
146 
 
Month 3: 
Video 1: Timeframe SelecƟon & Deﬁning Setups 
 
Okay folks welcome back. This is the ﬁrst of eight teachings in the third month of the ICT 
mentorship, and this topic is going to be speciﬁcally dealing with the Ɵme frame selecƟon 
and deﬁning setups for your model. 
Okay, for Ɵme frame selecƟon there's a couple things that we break down in general ideas 
and terms. For the monthly chart, we use this for posiƟon trading and for folks that are 
intraday intolerant. That means you can't do anything in lower Ɵme frames; the monthly 
chart is actually going to do a lot of assistance for your trading and your analysis. So don't be 
discouraged by the fact that I do a lot of intra-day work and short-term trading; you'll be 
shocked to learn as we go through this mentorship, the precision and the accuracy that I 
have has a lot to do with the direcƟon that's derived by the informaƟon on the monthly 
chart. 
But as it is, the monthly charts are the basis if you will for our long-term posiƟon trading. 
Now I can admit to you, like I've done many Ɵmes in the past, I am not a long-term trader. I 
don't have the personality to hold on to a posiƟon that long. I tend to change my mind a lot 
and that doesn't ﬁt well for a long term posiƟon trader. So if you're a person that takes a 
long Ɵme to make a decision—if it comes hell or high water you're sƟcking with it—that's 
probably the avenue that would best suit you as a trader. Now I can't determine that, no one 
can do that but you, and that's going to come by way of you actually doing trades. 
If you get real scared or if you get real hyper about the short-term nature of trading, if you 
trade on these longer-term charts, or at least trade oﬀ of the ideas that come from the 
monthly charts, it removes a lot of the price acƟon shock that comes with intraday trading 
or short-term trading. 
The weekly chart we use that for swing trading. Now swing trading is a liƩle bit more 
frequent than long-term posiƟon trading. Swing trading is by my deﬁniƟon typically a one or 
two trades within a three month period. So every quarter of the year, in other words every 


--- Page 147 ---
147 
 
three to four months, there's going to be a setup that takes place, and you can ﬁnd them 
very easily on a weekly chart. But because the weekly chart is much like the monthly in 
regards to how long it takes to form the setups, it takes a great deal of paƟence, and while I 
am aƩributed to having a lot of paƟence, it's not that great; in other words, the well doesn't 
go that deep, I don't have that much of paƟence. 
So the weekly chart, again, while I may not be trading speciﬁcally on the setup itself, I will 
use those ideas to help frame the short-term trades that I take or even day trades. But for 
swing trading, again, for those individuals that can't be in the marketplace on a very intraday 
minute by minute basis, the weekly chart will actually serve you very well. You don't have to 
do a whole lot of trading; it's a whole lot of Ɵme in between the setups, and much like the 
monthly chart, it removes that iniƟal shock of short-term volaƟlity. 
Now the daily chart, that's where we do our short-term trading. The daily chart, to me 
personally, I believe this chart is the best chart there is because it gives you the best of both 
worlds. It gives you a long-term perspecƟve; it gives you all of the near-term banking levels, 
so all the levels that the banks would be interested in, all the large funds would be 
interested in, you can clearly see those on this daily chart. The daily chart also gives us the 
framework to do a lot of analysis for short-term trading, so it has the beneﬁts of higher Ɵme 
frame but not to the degree of weekly and monthly, but it does give you a higher Ɵme frame 
perspecƟve. 
So if we can arrive at strong analysis reference points in terms of insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow, if 
we can look at points at which there may be stops, there may be a liquidity void, there may 
be a fair value gap—these ideas, much like we said in the ﬁrst month of this mentorship 
what things you should be speciﬁcally focusing on—those ideas, if you apply that to the daily 
chart, you'll have a plethora of setups and plenty of things to trade on. 
Now you can trade on a daily chart again if you are the type of trader that hasn't the 
opportunity to trade in front of the charts being the intraday price acƟon, or again if you're 
not comfortable trading in those lower Ɵme frames. The daily chart does a very good job of 
suiƟng swing traders and short-term traders. So that to me is the reason why I like the daily 
chart the best. If there was a chart selecƟon and I had someone hold a gun to my head, 
which chart would I like to trade oﬀ of? It would be the daily chart, because it gives you a 
great deal of range to work within; it gives you the interbank levels to be monitoring where 
stops would be residing, where long-term objecƟves would be seen in form of liquidity 
above or below the marketplace. And again I counsel you that if you can't be in the day 
trading models that we use, to try to at least try your analysis on the daily charts. You try to 
work on those speciﬁc Ɵme frames, and if you sƟll feel very sensiƟve or scared, or if you 
have a lot of informaƟon or inﬂuence over your emoƟons by watching price on the daily 
chart and it seems a liƩle sƟll too fast for you, move up to the weekly chart. Okay, there's 
nothing wrong with doing that; it just takes a lot more Ɵme. And unfortunately some of you 
that are listening, you may have a business, you may have a lot of things going on in life, 
maybe you're a college student. Okay, maybe you can't be in front of the price acƟon on an 
intraday basis. When we trade these higher Ɵme frames, you're going to see that there's a 
lot of movement available, but you're going to have to submit to a lot of Ɵme too. 


--- Page 148 ---
148 
 
And now obviously four hours or less is day trading, and we're not going to speak too much 
about day trading in this parƟcular teaching because there's a lot of things that we got to go 
in regards to day trading and speciﬁc concepts that are inherently related to Ɵme of day. So 
while we're not going to teach that here, the focus is Ɵme frame selecƟon and what Ɵme 
frame are we using these speciﬁc Ɵme frames for. 
Now deﬁning setups for your model. Now it's important as a mentor, I don't try to force you 
into a speciﬁc mold. It's never been my goal to give you a 'copy me,' 'be just like ICT'; that's 
not going to work, it's never going to work for anyone. But it does give you a goal; it gives 
you a framework to work within. While striving for replicaƟon of some of the things you 
probably see me do, you're going to discover the trader that actually resides in you. And 
when that happens—and no one knows when that's going to occur—you'll know it by 
experience being in the marketplace looking for speciﬁc things and studying. And one day, 
and it sounds like a fairy tale, but it really is, you'll have an epiphany where all of these 
things will suddenly make sense to you and you'll know what type of trader you want to be. 
And what's even beƩer is you actually know what setups that you like. 
It's one thing for me to say I like a four hour turtle soup sell into a bearish order block that's 
seen on a daily chart; well that might be a setup that you can't wait for. Okay, it may require 
you a lot more paƟence than you have to do that. That same setup if it was done on, say for 
instance, a weekly turtle soup sell into a monthly bearish order block, you know I can't wait 
for that; I would never have any trading opportuniƟes because they don't happen that oŌen. 
But if it just happens to be the Ɵme when you look at the charts and you see that formaƟon, 
then obviously that's your setup. But your paƩern or your bread and buƩer, go-to setup, 
once you understand it, it's applicable on all these Ɵme frames. 
What makes the Ɵme frame selecƟon process unique and why it's important for you as a 
trader to determine how you're going to trade it is because your comfort level and your 
psychological makeup as a trader has to align with that. So in other words, your paƟence 
level, your apƟtude, and your life—I mean let's just be real about it—your life has to allow 
you the ability to be in front of the charts or at least do the analysis and then execute on 
that analysis. So when we look for setups we have to ﬁnd setups that are uniquely deﬁned 
for your speciﬁc trading model. 
And a lot of folks will say, 'You know ICT, you got a lot of tools, you have a lot of things that 
you know, you have a ton of things. Do we have to know all these things?' No, that's the 
beneﬁt of studying conceptually and modular things, because you'll quickly ascertain 
whether or not a speciﬁc paƩern or concept gels with you. In other words, does it resonate 
with you as a trader? You're going to ﬁnd that some of the systems and things out there and 
analysis aren't really uniquely aƩracƟve to you as a trader, and I've experienced that as a 
trader coming up. It wasn't a lot of things out there that I got excited about. But the few 
things that I did in early, early in my days, it was commitment of traders report, 
accumulaƟon distribuƟon, things relaƟng to paƩerns. I liked the paƩerns because I wanted 
to see speciﬁc things that repeat, because obviously like anything else, you know if you can 
see something coming, you know what to do should you see an opportunity coming. 
The problem is, is many of the things I was studying, I couldn't ﬁnd them real-Ɵme or before 
they actually came to fruiƟon. So as I reﬁned my trading model and speciﬁcally dealt with 


--- Page 149 ---
149 
 
insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow and price acƟon, then suddenly it was like the veil was liŌed and I 
had blinders removed from my eyes. Then I could see setups that made very speciﬁc 
formaƟons and they had speciﬁc criteria that I can really deﬁne and make it very objecƟve 
about how I trade, which is what I was looking for as a trader when I ﬁrst started. But when I 
ﬁrst started, I was looking at indicators thinking that was going to be the answer. And you 
probably, if you're listening, you probably have had that same feeling—like you want to feel 
informed, you want to feel like you know what you're looking for. But because you don't—
and it's normal for you not to know what that is when you ﬁrst start trading—even for some 
that waﬄe for the ﬁrst couple years and they sƟll can't ﬁnd the rhythm, they will someƟmes 
look to an indicator to give them a reason to do something. And because they need to be 
told something outside of their own ability to decide, someƟmes you'll see that the indicator 
will lead you to a setup, but then most of the Ɵme it really doesn't. And it's because most of 
your trades are linked to a mathemaƟcally derived indicator. 
When we look at setups, we're looking at speciﬁcally ﬁnding unique characterisƟcs that 
repeat themselves over and over again in price acƟon. Because there are generic 
characterisƟcs and traits in price acƟon that repeat over and over again, they're not limited 
to any one of these speciﬁc Ɵme frames. So when we look for speciﬁc setups, we're going to 
ﬁnd a setup that we individually as a trader like the most—the one that we can see easily—
and you're going to see that while some of them overlap, some of them won't overlap, but 
they sƟll will give you an opportunity to be in the marketplace in the right direcƟon. 
So a trend trader, that's one model that a trader can be using all my concepts with. You'll be 
trading only in the direcƟon of the monthly and weekly charts. So in other words, if the 
monthly and weekly are indicaƟng it's going to be a bearish marketplace, you're going to 
only be trading short and holding on to these posiƟons for a great deal of Ɵme. If it's bullish 
on the monthly and weekly chart, obviously you're going to look for buy signals, you're going 
to hold them for a great deal Ɵme. That is the nature of trend trading. And again, I am not a 
long-term posiƟon trader, so while I tried that early on in my career, it didn't ﬁt me and it 
didn't Ɵckle my fancy. So I'm a short-term trader. 
Now swing trader, which I've done a lot in my early days, but because I found that it was 
more of an allure for me to be in the marketplace more than just a couple Ɵmes a month, a 
swing trader—they're trading the daily, intermediate-term price acƟon—and you're going to 
see there's a lot of setups that require you to sit on your hands and wait. But when they 
form and you posiƟon yourself in them, they oﬀer stellar rewards and they just go on and 
on, and the payouts are amazing. But again, it requires a great deal of paƟence. So I can tell 
you as your mentor, I just don't have a lot of paƟence for swing trading on the daily chart; it 
just takes too much Ɵme to wait for the setups and for the trades to pan out. I want my 
money to have velocity. In other words, I want to be able to put my money at work, let it do 
its thing, get my return, and then compound that returned rate and my base equity and put 
it back to work again into something that gives me more velocity. 
So when I say these things, I'm not trying to talk those individuals that are comfortable 
trading on a monthly chart or weekly chart. I'm trying to tell you that me, personally, what I 
found about myself as a trader, my deﬁned setups are on a lower Ɵme frame than the daily 
chart. So it requires a liƩle bit more dynamic study and Ɵme in front of the charts. But that's 
what my unique model is; I excel in that approach to trading. You again may not be set up 


--- Page 150 ---
150 
 
psychologically or emoƟonally prepared to trade like that, and there's nothing wrong with 
that. So don't think that I'm trying to force you into a speciﬁc trading model or a mode of 
trading. You're going to discover that as we go through these 12 months. 
Also you're going to learn—this is how I started—as a contrarian trader. Okay, now it doesn't 
always mean that being contrarian is the right way to go about it, and it doesn't mean that 
not being a contrarian is the right way always as well. There's going to be Ɵmes when to be a 
contrarian trader is opƟmal, and what you're basically doing is you're trading reversal 
paƩerns at market extremes. So when the market's really gone a great distance higher, and 
it's been moving higher for a long period of Ɵme, eventually it's going to hit a speciﬁc level—
or signiﬁcant level I should say, usually and typically it's on a higher Ɵme frame—it will 
create reversal paƩerns. Now it doesn't mean the market's going to reverse and create a top 
there; it can, and someƟmes it will. But you can sƟll trade reversal paƩerns at extreme 
moves, or what would become referred to as capitulaƟon, where the market just moves 
extremely, you know that last bit of burst higher if it's been bullish, or that quick, sudden 
drop with a great deal of magnitude going lower and it usually makes the low of the move. 
Generally, someƟmes you're going to see that there will be Ɵmes where you want to be 
contrarian and see that move as a blow-oﬀ move and it's the end of the move, and you can 
probably get some really good setups in the form of a reversal paƩern. But it doesn't always 
have to require capitulaƟon. It could be on a short-term basis where, if you watch the daily 
chart, we may go above a previous month high, and that may be a really good selling 
scenario to sell short, but not forever. But it's sƟll an opportunity to trade with. 
And then for short-term trading, which again that's what I excel in, you're trading the weekly 
ranges and you're holding for typically about one to ﬁve days in duraƟon. And then 
obviously setups that are found for the day traders model where you're trading intraday 
swing trading with exits by 2 PM New York Ɵme. 
And when we look at this, this is the actual broad brush idea of everything that I do as a 
trader, everything I've done as a trader, how I excelled from using long-term higher Ɵme 
frame charts down to what we're seeing here in number ﬁve and number four, in respecƟve 
terms of Ɵme frame selecƟon—four hour or less, that's where I excel at—and then my 
setups are day trading in nature. Now again, because I have a universal applicaƟon and I 
have experience doing all these types of trading, just because I don't elect to trade on a 
monthly or weekly or daily all the Ɵme, what I'm actually telling you is I can do that. But 
because of my appeƟte for more acƟon and because I want to put my money at work faster, 
get it ready to return and put it back to work again, so I can turn it in and capitalize on 
velocity—turning my money over and over and over again quicker—I have adopted the 
mindset that that's my goal, that's my pursuit. So therefore to do that more eﬃciently and 
expediently, it's going to be in the form of day trading or short-term trading. Do not let me 
convince you or try to talk you into that's the best way to go, because it's not; it's not for 
everyone. So you can sƟll compound your money exceedingly well trading on a higher Ɵme 
frame charts; believe me, it's not about the setups or the Ɵme frame, it's about your unique 
alignment with the setups and the Ɵme frame that meets the happy medium for you as a 
trader. Because all of us have a family, all of us have real world tug of wars that take place. 
You know, some of us have spouses that require a lot of our Ɵme, you know, some of us are 
in high-maintenance relaƟonships, some of us are in codependent relaƟonships, some of 


--- Page 151 ---
151 
 
you are not in a relaƟonship. Okay, some of you are doing things that are going to be a 
barrier to you doing a lot of trading or a lot of studying, and it's going to require you to do a 
lot more research and acƟon in those higher Ɵme frame monthly and weekly charts than 
you daily. But if I were to counsel you and you were going to listen to me, I would suggest 
that you start in the daily chart. Even if you're going to know it in your heart of hearts that 
you're going to try to be a day trader, start the daily chart because the daily chart is going to 
be a really good bellwether. It's just the one that will give you everything you need to know 
with a lot of the higher Ɵme frame reference points, and it'll also give you the direcƟonal 
bias that everybody looks for. And they're always asking by way of email, 'You tell me how to 
get in, where to buy, and how do I know today's going to be up or down?' Well, you ﬁnd that 
on the daily chart; that tells you everything there. And once you go through this teaching 
and the next teaching with insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow, you'll see how easy and the daily bias is 
really, it's not that hard, but the problem is trusƟng it—that's the hard part. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 152 ---
152 
 
 
 
All right, let's take a look at a monthly chart. Okay. And the monthly chart, its 
premise or its inﬂuence in your analysis is it's the long-term price acƟon reference for the 
largest price acƟon swings in trading. Now trading setups that take a great deal of Ɵme like 
this they form in a Ɵme frame that most people can't bring themselves to trade. But when 
they unfold these setups that you see in the monthly chart they tend to unfold over a period 
of many months; uh they don't just happen like liƩle blips on a ﬁve minute or one minute 
chart they just go on and on and on. Now due to the length of Ɵme this chart requires to 
present setup, trading in the direcƟon of the most recent setup can yield the lowest risk with 
the highest reward condiƟons. Now what I mean by that is when you have the direcƟonal 
bias, or trend (I'll say it with quotaƟon marks); if you can see where the market's going to 
most likely go on a monthly chart you have a great deal of advantage by trading in that 
direcƟon, even if you don't catch the actual move that creates the opƟmal entry for a sell or 
a buy because it's a monthly chart the very nature of its Ɵme frame it gives us a great deal of 
Ɵme to sƟll capture moves in that same direcƟonal bias or in that trend direcƟon. Now 
swings that form on the monthly chart obviously they can be several hundreds of pips and 
it's going to require a long period of Ɵme to unfold. But let's take a look at a sample size of 
price acƟon on a monthly chart here. Now obviously we just turn our charts on, we look at 
what’s recently happened here. 
 
 


--- Page 153 ---
153 
 
 
And all of a sudden, the very next month, we see that. Okay, we weren't watching 
price closely, this parƟcular market was unclear to us at the Ɵme, but right away now, we 
know that there's somebody in the marketplace moving price around. Okay, and go back to 
the very ﬁrst teaching in this mentorship where I tell you to look for markets that want to 
show a strong willingness to move away from a parƟcular level. Now prior to that down 
move, we saw price in a small liƩle consolidaƟon about 600 pips or so in in range, and then 
ﬁnally the market broke down on a monthly basis. 
 
And each one of these candles represents a month's worth of data. And eventually the 
market takes a greater deal of magnitude lower its surge is lower and again take a look at 
how many pips this would be and obviously this is the euro usd. The the move from 1.5950 
we'll call it all the way down to let's just say 1.2450. Okay. That's a lot of pips a lot of pips 
now when you see this it's rather shocking when you view it in terms of how many pips are 
available and it takes you three months to cover that much distance or a liƩle bit well four 
months to cover it really. So in four months the euro dollar trades a couple thousand pips. 


--- Page 154 ---
154 
 
Okay. Now again each one of these ranges are speciﬁcally a monthly range in other words 
the highest part of that candle for each individual candle is the high it traded to the most for 
that that parƟcular month. And the low the candle is the lowest it traded for that month the 
opening is where the month started trading and then it closed is the last trading day of the 
month where it closed. In these individual monthly candles there are a plethora of setups 
think about what you have there you roughly have about 20 trading days without holidays 
included you know things of that nature and non-farm payer which we don't trade but we'll 
just say roughly it's about 20 trades 20 trading days per one of these candles so every one of 
these bars represents 20 potenƟal trading days. Now inside of those daily candles okay if we 
were to break them down okay there are individual setups as well. Now also and I skipped 
over this inside of these candles of representaƟon of monthly data there are typically about 
four weekly candles. And again inside the weekly candle there's a great deal of opportuniƟes 
in there so I want you to think like that when we look at a seed. Okay if I were to show you a 
seed say for instance a a apple seed I placed an apple seed inside your palm and I asked you 
what you see obviously most of you would have very myopic view and say well you know 
obviously it's an apple seed I know I've seen it before but I want you to have that view where 
you see the apple seed yes but you see the potenƟal that apple seed and how many trees 
that one seed could produce over Ɵme and with the all the the creaƟon of all these new 
trees the obvious is that you'll have more apples so when we look at these higher Ɵme 
frames we look at as that's that seed okay that really high probability trade scenario exists in 
the monthly chart. Now most of you don't want to spend Ɵme in a monthly chart most of 
you could care less about what that monthly chart says or what it's done because there's no 
magic in the monthly chart because it takes what a whole month to create. The problem is 
that's the wrong perspecƟve. You need to look at the monthly chart and say hey you know 
what if the monthly charts moving around okay and the monthly charts having sensiƟvity at 
speciﬁc levels who would be moving price around on these levels and obviously the answer 
would be large banks and insƟtuƟons so if we have that mindset we can go into the monthly 
chart with a great deal more of appreciaƟon saying okay well I know that the market's going 
to be driven by deep pockets if it's going to push price around on the monthly chart there's a 
great deal of deep pockets smart money banks insƟtuƟons they're all going to be in here 
pushing price around so it's in your best interest to understand what that monthly chart's 
going to do and what it has already done in this case let's just say we opened up our chart 
and we saw the euro dollar here and this is what we see. So right away without having any 
other forms of reference okay we don't need anything like that and this is how I'm trying to 
tell you understanding price acƟon it's very pure. I don't need to know where trend is prior 
to this sample size and data I don't need to know what indicators are indicaƟng bullish or 
bearishness I don't need to know that either I don't need to know what crossing overs of any 
moving average that took place. I decided where has price moved away from and was it it 
was it it was a great deal of magnitude yes obviously we moved away very strongly from a 
consolidaƟon around the uh 51 or 52 level up to the 1.5950 level okay so we had about 700 
bit range or so. 
 
 


--- Page 155 ---
155 
 
 
And when we see this, the way I want you to view price, your eyes go immediately to that 
last up candle, because we understand that smart money is going to sell in up moves. They 
sold in that up candle, kept it in a range, and then ﬁnally it broke down below that up 
candle's low. So now, the point is, yes, you've missed that boat, the opportunity's missed, 
you couldn't sell short there because we're going to assume that we're now just looking at 
the chart for the ﬁrst Ɵme. You as a trader can say, okay, I know that if it gets back up to that 
candle's low, and again, this is the monthly chart, I'm going to have a trade, and I'm going to 
deﬁne that trade by way of that speciﬁc up candle's low or that bearish order block. 
 
 
So eventually when price does that, we have many months before it actually does it. Over a 
year transpires. Now think about this now. Over a year transpires before price returns back 
to that up candle's low or that bearish order block. But soon as it hits it, then you have a 
setup. Now the quesƟon is when price hits that, okay, it takes a long Ɵme to get to that 


--- Page 156 ---
156 
 
parƟcular level. But as price was trading around that 1.2730 level and eventually it trades 
through the 1.3050 level up through the 132 level, okay we have an indicaƟon that the price 
is probably going to want to go back up, and there are stops obviously around that 146 level 
with that big up candle right here(the on the cursor has been placed on in the screenshot 
right above), this big up candle right in here(the on the cursor has been placed on in the 
screenshot right above), it's going to be stops resƟng above that high. Again thinking about 
that concept that I gave you what to focus on now in the September content of this 
mentorship. 
 
The bullish candle (the one the cursor is placed on) in the screenshot right above 
breaks above the down candle that precedes it and so we would reasonably expect price to 
trade down back into that down candle and it does it there in the screenshot above. Once it 
is traded down to, we would then expect bullishness. So if we see this, we know that there 
may be some bullishness on the upside.  
 
 
 


--- Page 157 ---
157 
 
 
And price may reach up above to take these stops(where the curso is found in the 
screenshot above is the area of stops) and if it does, it may reach back up to the bearish 
orderblock. 
  
So, when it ﬁnally gets back up to that bearish order block, we've had two instances where 
we can see where prices on a monthly chart broke down, trade all the way down here. We 
can see the bearish candle here that was violated on the upside and then it returns back into 
that down candle, so we can see bullishness in the form of a bullish order block. In that case, 
we can see that price has a willingness to potenƟally range expand up into that return of 
that bearish order block right over here. But when it does hit this, when it ﬁnally hits that 
parƟcular level there, the quesƟon is where would price likely trade to next on the monthly 
chart? Again, this is no diﬀerent than what you see me do on a 15-minute chart and an 
hourly chart or even a daily chart, but wait, where would you reasonably expect to see price 
trade from once it trades at this level here? 
 


--- Page 158 ---
158 
 
 
Well what's under there? We got basically equal lows, but look at the bodies of the candles 
also. It's too clean, way too clean. Now again think this is a monthly chart folks, monthly. 
 
 
If we’re looking at this(the screenshot right above) right now for the ﬁrst Ɵme and we sit in 
front of our charts and say okay, i see this level being hit. What could we do with this? 


--- Page 159 ---
159 
 
 
Obviously, we can expect to see price trading lower but why lower? Below those 
clean lows at the leŌ side of current price(as shown in screenshot above) there is going to be 
sell stops. And the quesƟon is, who in their right mind will have sell stops below that low? 
And the answer to the quesƟon is large funds. Long term trend following funds will have 
stop loss right below that low.They will leave stops in for a very long Ɵme and they have lots 
of money in play. So when the market trades at that 1.5080 level and it goes lower and 
expands lower, it's rushing down to get to those stops that are residing below the 1.122 
level, and look at that last candle before it blows out the lows here, all these lows in here, 
that last candle when it hits it, look what it does: it explodes to run out those parƟcular 
stops. Now, again, I want to remember, remind you that this is a monthly chart. So if we see 
this and we can outline where the market may reach up into, which took a trade duraƟon of 
six months to unfold, but it took over 13 months to set up. It took 13 months for this 
basically the trade up to get back to an area where we would see a setup form on the 
monthly chart. But then once the formaƟon comes into fruiƟon, look how many months it 
takes to unfold. You got one, two, three, four, ﬁve, six candles or six months. Look how much 
acceleraƟon there is, it's half the Ɵme, half the Ɵme it took for this chart to unfold and set 
up the setup and then half the Ɵme or basically six months to get down to these stops in this 
setup. Okay, in this setup, I'm going to ask you a quesƟon: what type of trader are you? 
When price was hiƫng that 1.5075 to 1.5080 level or thereabouts, what type of trader 
would you be there? When price is most likely going to come down and clear out those 
stops, you have several opportuniƟes to choose from. You can be a posiƟon trader and be 
short around that 1.5080 level,and look for a move all the way down to the 1.122s. Now, 
think about that, that's an enormous amount of Ɵme and potenƟal range. Could you take 
that trade? Do you have the wherewithal to hold on to it? Personally, I couldn't hold that 
long, but does that mean I can't trade this idea or these perspecƟves on the Euro Dollar? If I 
can see 51 big ﬁgure, one—you know, it's 1.151—or we return back to that bearish order 
block as we're noƟng here at that orange level, when price is trading there, it spent two 
months giving you an opportunity to get on board. If you see that and the reasonable 
expectaƟon would be, okay, well there's some equal lows down there, it's probably going to 
take a long Ɵme to do it, but between the 1.151 level that we'll say and the 1.122 level, 


--- Page 160 ---
160 
 
there's our range. So between those two reference points, we have a known range to work 
within. Now, again, this is a monthly chart. Before all these down candles form, we have the 
potenƟal range idenƟﬁed, so we can now break this down and say, okay, I already know 
where price may likely go relaƟve to the monthly chart. So how can we use this informaƟon 
going forward and go across all the spectrum of types of trading? Again, it's over 2,900 pips 
for that price swing, 2,900 plus pips. 
 
So let’s take a look at the highlighted swing(as shown in screenshot above) on a 
weekly chart and reﬁne that more in terms of deﬁning setups for your trading model: 
 
Here(as shown in screenshot in the image right above) is the same price swing and we’re 
now looking at it on a weekly chart. Now, this is an intermediate term price acƟon reference 
point so everything we see here is on the scale of intermediate term. So obviously because 
it's a weekly chart it sƟll takes a great deal of Ɵme for these things to set up, but it's a lot 
more reﬁned when we break it down into a weekly chart, you can see a lot more detail. 


--- Page 161 ---
161 
 
 
 
From the screenshot right above, we can see obviously when the market trades back up into 
previous insƟtuƟonal reference points like the down candle (the one the cursor is pointed to 
in the screenshot above) right before the move up. That down candle is a breaker. What is it 
breaking? It is breaking the old high at point 1 running out stops. That breaker is lower than 
the one the cursor points to in the screenshot below: 
 
 
So we’re gonna have to refer to the lower breaker at point 2 as the iniƟal run up. So once it 
trades to point 2, there is a selling opportunity. 
We already know that the range is potenƟally going to expand to run out based on the 
monthly chart that the liquidity is going to be at points 3 and 4. What kind of liquidity? Large 
fund liquidity. So the market expands and goes lower from point 2 then it consolidates again, 
trades lower and comes right back up into a bearish orderblock at point 5 so we can expect 


--- Page 162 ---
162 
 
to see another opportunity to sell oﬀ because we are trading in the direcƟon of the monthly 
chart. 
But now you’re expecƟng the weekly chart to expand and it’s going to most likely expand 
down into around 4 and 5 where liquidity will be resƟng. 
 
 
We could take this one step further and reﬁne it down into a daily chart. Now obviously the 
daily chart is going to be a short term acƟon based Ɵme frame where you can see all of the 
intermediate and you can see the short term highs and lows in the marketplace, but more 
speciﬁcally you can see how you can actually frame your short term trades and your day 
trades. Now again we're not going to talk about day trading for this model here but for short 
term trading we're going to look at speciﬁcs that deal with that. 
 
 


--- Page 163 ---
163 
 
 
We know that the range is deﬁned from a known high and a known low. The high is where 
that bearish order block was on the monthly chart. The low at which we're aiming for was 
those lows on the monthly chart where there were equal lows so we knew the stops that 
were resƟng below that. So if we know that we can take our ﬁb and lay it across those two 
reference points and by doing so we end up doing what? We start grading that price swing. 
So these levels that we have here these horizontal lines they're areas at which the market 
should see new setups form. Now here's the thing, we knew the range before it actually 
traded so we can anƟcipate new trading scenarios or ideas to form in our charts when price 
trades at this parƟcular level and setups will form in close proximity to these levels as well. 
 
Now, think: all these things that we've been teaching so far, they're repeaƟng themselves. 
But the thing is, this was all outlined on a monthly chart, but the trading ideas are reﬁned 
further by breaking down the monthly chart into a weekly chart, then weekly chart breaking 
that down into a daily chart. 
 


--- Page 164 ---
164 
 
 
 
Now, as a paƩern trader or a setup seeking trader like you all are, there are several things 
that we do in the ICT camp. We look for opƟmal trade entries which is a simple return back 
into a known range, and that's the only indicator based ideas I like to use and it's based on 
ﬁb and returning into a known open range. The other ones are obviously order blocks and 
then there's stop runs which we classically call the turtle soup, which is a false breakout 
which is what you're seeing here(in the screenshot right above).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 165 ---
165 
 
 
Every instance we see on this chart, we have a short term high here,now think; inside this 
shaded area, the monthly chart we used it to frame what the idea that we're going to go 
long term lower. As we are in this shaded area unƟl it ulƟmately hits the 1.2175 level or so, 
we're going to be bearish on the marketplace. So we look for what? the marketplace on the 
daily chart to seek liquidity above old highs, why would they want to do that? 
The market traded lower from point 1 to 2, and there’s going to be buy stops resƟng above 
the short term high at point 3,price runs above it and explodes lower. Same thing happens at 
points 4 and 5. NoƟce every single Ɵme the market takes out a short term high just by a liƩle 
bit and quickly accelerates on the downside.  
 
 
 
 


--- Page 166 ---
166 
 
 
Why is that taking place? Because they're absorbing liquidity on the buy side. They want to 
pair up their orders to sell into those known parƟcipants that want to buy here with their 
trailed stop loss in the form of a buy stop, because think about if you're short, how do you 
protect your posiƟon? You put a buy stop above a recent high, and then typically what will 
happen is the market will come back and knock you out and you'll start cursing, or the 
market will move away in your favor and you can look for another point which you want to 
lower that stop loss, protecƟng and locking in proﬁt. Well, what we do is we look for these 
opportuniƟes in the form of false breaks above an old high with the idea on a higher Ɵme 
frame chart that indicates that price may go lower. So this is like a holy grail setup where it's 
absolutely barn burner. You get in there and you look for a short term high to be violated on 
a daily chart. Look how many Ɵmes it does it in the scope of all these many days, but look at 
the logical areas at which it does it. It's close to those grades that we did on the overall total 
price swing that we expect to see. It does it here, we have it here, we have it here, we don't 
see it in here(where the cursor is placed in the screenshot right above) but if we go down to 
a large Ɵme frame, you will see it, and then we see another one in here as well. So when we 
look at price, if you are looking to trade only stop runs, you ﬁrst have to know why the stop 
run would be necessary or why would be inﬂuenƟal in terms of price acƟon and you get that 
from the higher Ɵme frame like we showed with the monthly chart. You hold on to that bias 
unƟl clearly you're in, you're showing that you're wrong. In other words, this thing could 
easily turn around here and started trading all the way up and started geƫng violently 
bullish, and that would have to obviously make you change gears or at least put pause on 
the noƟon you expect to see the Euro Dollar to trade lower. But unƟl it does that or it hits 
the terminus or whether we ulƟmately think the price is going to go, we stay with that 
mindset. We sƟck with it. So if you're not a stop run setup trader, in other words, you can't 
see turtle soups, if you don't have the ability to trust that or note it, what you're selling into 
is a high probability scenario where it's going to see an explosion in the higher Ɵme frame 
direcƟon, in this case down. There's other things you can trade, and they come in way of 
breakers and various order blocks. 
 


--- Page 167 ---
167 
 
 
Now obviously the whole moves starts back here(at point O in screenshot above) with that 
monthly bearish orderblock it trades into but look at what it does. It comes in the formaƟon 
of a turtle soup or false break or run above equal highs taking out the buy stops and then 
the market surges quickly. In the screenshot right above, noƟce how shorts could be taken 
using breakers. 
 
 
What we’re doing is you’re using the higher Ɵmeframe and you’re using your deﬁned setup 
for your model. If you’re a trader that’s focusing on being short, you  need to idenƟfy what 
paƩern you want to be looking for. It could be one or two but it’s important to know one. 
You only need one good paƩern and i only have really technically three; I trade inside of a 
range where I’m pulling pack into an exposed range or if it’s bullish and it rallies up, I’m 
waiƟng for the pullback to close in that range and then I’m gonna buy again. Or I’m selling at 
a bearish order block or I’m selling short into a run above the previous high for sell stops . 
I’m only taking three setups: I trade inside the range if there’s nothing I can see as a violaƟon 
above an old high or below an old low, I’m selling above a previous high if I’m bearish or I’m 
selling at previous bearish orderblock if I don’t believe that it’s necessary to go up for those 
stops and you’ll learn when those condiƟons are there because i know what you’re thinking. 
That's the thing I need to know, ICT. That's the one. Because if it's me trading back to a 
bearish order block, but it could potenƟally be a turtle soup, how do I know which one? 
You're going to learn that, but I got to give it to you in pieces at a Ɵme. So again, when we 
look at the market like this and we have our Ɵme frame selecƟon and then we have our 
setups for our parƟcular trading model, and that model is going to be deﬁned by you over 
Ɵme. No one's going to be able to tell you this is how you do it. Okay, I'm giving you 
suggesƟons, and the three setups that I parƟcularly trade, you're going to be able to 
gravitate to one of them. And it may be order blocks, but for some of you, the order block is 
going to be problemaƟc. It's going to be, 'I don't know which one to trust,' but you'll clearly 


--- Page 168 ---
168 
 
see where the stop runs are and you'll be able to trade turtle soups. But maybe you can't do 
that either; well, you'll trade in liquidity voids. Okay, you'll wait for the price to come back 
down, close in a range, and then you'll wait for expansion to happen. But the point is, these 
three forms of discipline that I use for trading, they always exist in all Ɵme frames. It doesn't 
maƩer if you like order blocks and your best friend you're studying with and you're 
comparing notes with—which you really shouldn't be doing by the way, as I say that in this 
mentorship—but if you're seeing other people talk about their ability to do certain things 
and you feel frustrated that they are excelling in an understanding of order blocks and you 
are struggling, but you can see the turtle soup run on stops, that's your paƩern. Don't force 
it. Don't try to, just because order blocks or somebody's showing a lot of trades because 
they can see their order block, there's no preference over this. It's whatever I see at the Ɵme 
when I turn the charts on. And if there's a void and it comes back into that void, I know what 
I'm going to do; I'm going to look for that run to try to run that previous high. If we rallied up 
and we created a liquidity void on the upside, when that trades back down to that range, I'm 
going to buy it with an expectaƟon it's going to make a new high, and that's the only setup 
I'm looking for. I'm not looking for 5,000 pips; I'm just looking for that known range, and 
you'll learn all that. But don't think that I'm forcing anyone to be any one parƟcular trader, 
but you will learn these three condiƟons in the marketplace, because that's the only three I 
trade with today. I don't do anything outside of that. I don't trade overall paƩerns, I don't 
trade—you know—all the things that I shared in the past, they were all hallmarks of my 
coming up as a trader, but I don't do all those things today. I only trade these three things 
and I don't need anything more. In fact, I could just reduce it to one. But because I like a lot 
of acƟon, I will look for these three things every single day across the charts, and I'll ﬁnd the 
setup, and I've shown it to you, proven to you on a daily basis. When you understand these 
three characterisƟcs in price acƟon, nothing evades you—not a reversal, not a trend 
following pullback, and not an expansion out of a consolidaƟon. Nothing will evade you; 
you'll have everything you need to know in a repertoire and a toolbox to trade any market 
proﬁle. So with that, I'm going to wish you good luck and good trading. 

