--- Page 239 ---
239 
 
Month 3: 
Video 7:  Market Maker Trap- Trendline Phantoms[False Trendlines]: 
 
Welcome back folks, this is teaching number seven of eight for the month of November 2016 
in the ICT mentorship. 
We're gonna be teaching trendline Phantoms or false trend lines. 
The ﬁrst is going to be diagonal trend line support. 
The priming is done by way of seeing the market begin to make higher highs and higher 
lows. 
The market appears to have an imaginary diagonal line it seems to repel price higher from. 
Retail Traders will extend these imaginary lines into the future and aƩribute support 
theories to it. 
When price hits the extended imaginary diagonal line connecƟng higher lows, retail Traders 
buy it then. 
Conversely, diagonal trend line resistance. 
This is primed in the thought processes of retail Traders by seeing the market beginning to 
make lower highs and lower lows. 
The market appears to have an imaginary diagonal line it seems to propel price lower from. 
Retail Traders will extend these imaginary lines into the future and aƩribute resistance 
theories to them. 
When price hits the extended imaginary diagonal line connecƟng lower highs, retail Traders 
short at that moment. 
 
 

--- Page 240 ---
240 
 
 
Trend Line Theory 
It's my perspecƟve that there's no basis on trend line theory in the form of diagonal support 
or diagonal resistance, and I believe it's just basically an opinion. 
There's no staƟsƟcal Edge that I've been able to build with use of diagonal support or 
resistance in the form of trend lines. 
Now I've been doing this for 24 years coming up, and just about the end of the month we're 
actually producing this video, and I will have been a Trader for 24 years. 
And in 24 years I've done a lot of things in analysis, and I was indoctrinated with trend lines 
when I ﬁrst started, and to me it made perfect sense because I could see it in the past. And, 
you know, all the books gave us perfect examples where it all works. 
But when we try to use the trendline idea, you know, which lows do you draw connecƟons 
to? Which highs do you draw connecƟons to? And quickly, all of a sudden, it's like, well, 
maybe this isn't as easy as I thought it was. 
But does price have an awareness of the point of trendline support? 
Or does price have an awareness of the point of trend line resistance? 
I'll submit to you that it does not. 
Price has no awareness of your trend line. Price doesn't respect what you have on your 
charts. Price only respects where the actual liquidity is in the marketplace, and because they 
can't see you because you're too small, the marketplace sees where the large pools of 
liquidity are. That means in buying interest and selling interest that's already in the 
marketplace in the form of protecƟve sell stops, protecƟve buy stops, or new buy stops for 
long entries or new sell stops for selling entries. 
That's the only thing that makes price move, and it's going to be hinged and framed on the 
context of who is in play right now. What smart money enƟty has the control of the 

--- Page 241 ---
241 
 
marketplace at the moment? Is it going higher based on their book being bullish, or is it 
going lower based on their book being bearish? 
And that's what this mentorship teaches. It gives you those ideas to go into seeing where 
price is most likely going to go, and we don't subscribe to down sloping trend lines or up 
sloping trend lines to formulate ideas in which we ﬁnd support or resistance based on that 
idea. 
Do banks associate value or prognosƟcaƟon on the basis of trendline theory? 
I'll submit to you no, they do not. 
Now for some that are in the ﬁnancial industry, maybe you're working at a bank, maybe you 
have used them in the past and you've had success. I'm telling you, since the banks don't 
have any associaƟon or prognosƟcaƟon placed on valuing a trendline level on a diagonal 
basis, and the reason why is because it's so subjecƟve. 
You are associaƟng future price movement to a level that hasn't been traded to yet. You're 
doing it on the basis of connecƟng two reference points in the past that don't have any 
bearing on what the future price is going to do. 
Has nothing. 
That high that you connected to, to a lower high, when you're looking for resistance or down 
trending trend line resistance, that third Ɵme it supposedly comes up to that line, what 
makes you so conﬁdent that it's going to go down at that point? 
Just because you drew the line on your chart? 
The Banks don't care what you're scribbling on all of your charts. They don't care about that. 
They're not aware of it, okay? But what they are aware of is senƟment that shiŌs and builds 
around those levels because it's going to be many Ɵmes being replicated on the fund level. 
Funds will get beat up. That's the basis of trading. 
Large Traders are the prey. That's where the markets go. They go for their orders, not for our 
liƩle orders, not for our liƩle liquidity, okay? 
But because we've learned to trade and herd like the fund Traders, we all many Ɵmes are 
casualƟes of that war between smart money and large funds. 
That's the business model that goes on. 
Large funds are cannibalized at reversals, but they're permiƩed to facilitate long-term trends 
when the markets are in that environment. 
But trend lines are not the key to it. 
Is the very nature of trend lines ﬂawed at its core? 
I will submit to you that yes, it is because it gives too many dangling carrots in front of the 
Trader's eyes, thinking that, okay, this is going to be an easy setup, so therefore let me go in 
here and sell at this resistance trend line, or let me buy at this diagonal support trend line. 

--- Page 242 ---
242 
 
It's not that easy, folks, but many Ɵmes our charts will paint these beauƟfully disguised 
opportuniƟes that are impossibiliƟes. 
Knowing this, how can market makers capitalize on this fallacy in price acƟon? 
 
Retail Bullish Trend Line Support 
In periods when price is making higher lows and higher highs, the use of trend line support 
will be adopted by retail Traders. 
The inﬂux of weak candid or less informed money at an area or price level provides liquidity 
for the market maker. 
The chart may appear bullish, but the underpinnings are in fact the opposite. The retail 
crowd will buy at a moment when price will be devoid of support. 
Price will collapse and leave the retail Trader long with draw down in the trade. 
When that third Touch of that uptrend line is seen in price acƟon, many Ɵmes I get dialed in 
expecƟng the high that forms between the low at the second Ɵme it hits the trend line and 
the third Ɵme it hits the trend line. 
That high in between I aim in that high for a bearish order block, or I will be allowing price to 
just brieﬂy poke its head above that high for a turtle soup, especially if the higher Ɵme frame 
charts that I use for my analysis indicate that we are not in a bullish environment, but the 
lower Ɵme frames will many Ɵmes paint these beauƟfully Illustrated uptrend diagonal 
support lines. 
So what I'm trying to do is I'm focusing in on when the market maker sets their traps for a 
sell scenario. 
Many Ɵmes that high in between the low it forms, if the second retouch of that trend line 
and the third Touch of that trend line, the high in between there is going to be a sell scenario 
that I'm aiming for in that. 

--- Page 243 ---
243 
 
I'm looking for a bearish order block, or I'm looking for maybe someƟmes on a lower Ɵme 
frame I'm looking for a bearish breaker where the market has shown a willingness to Rally 
up to take out an old high that's on a lower Ɵme frame that may not be seen as clear with 
that high in between point number two and point number three. 
All I'm looking for is a reason to be contrarian because if the trend line looks so obvious to 
me, I look at that as a trap. 
 
 
Retail Bearish Trend Line Resistance 
In periods when price is making lower lows and lower highs, the use of trend line resistance 
will be adopted by retail traders. 
The inﬂux of weak candid are less informed money at an area or price level provides liquidity 
for the market maker. 
The chart may appear bearish but the underpinnings are in fact the opposite. 
The retail crowd will sell at a moment when the price will be devoid of resistance. 
Price will rally and leave the retail trader short with draw down in the trade. 
Between the high formed at Point number two and point number three, the low in between 
those two points; I'm going to be aiming for a reason to be a buyer down there because I will 
submit to you that if the higher Ɵme frames are indicaƟng that higher prices most likely 
going to be in the near term and we're trading a higher Ɵme frame support levels based on 
order blocks or insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow, 
I'm looking for that low between High 2 and High 3. I'm looking for a bullish order block at 
that low in between the two points and while price may drop down into that old low just by 
a liƩle bit but not geƫng down to the low altogether, 

--- Page 244 ---
244 
 
I will be looking for a bullish Order Block to buy or I will accept a break just below that low 
for a turtle soup long entry or basically a run on the sell stops. Many Ɵmes the market will 
break through. 
Now a point of which I want to draw aƩenƟon to is the second point at which you have that 
trend line — in other words that the ﬁrst high you see and it comes down and makes a lower 
high number two and it trades lower and you think it's going back up to make a number 
three point high that's lower or three Ɵmes touching on that downtrend when the market 
rallies, I'm actually going to be looking for a move up into that second high because that's 
where a lot of the buy stops are going to be residing. 
 
 
the same thing said just an opposite when we're looking for that sell scenario in bullish trend 
line support. Retail's gonna be looking forward to go higher, I'm looking forward to go down 
below Point number two, that's where everyone's stop loss is going to be.  
 

--- Page 245 ---
245 
 
 
Now when you think about it like this; trend lines in the form of diagonal basis support and 
resistance, it's really a toss-up. 
Do you have conﬁdence that the trend line that you're drawing is going to really provide 
support or resistance? 
Think about it. It's really associated closely to ﬂipping a coin. 
Heads you're going to be a buyer and guess what? Tails you'd be a seller. 
You're back to the same equaƟon of chance and we do not trade with the perspecƟve of 
chance. 
 
Trading With Smart Money Clues 

--- Page 246 ---
246 
 
When we trade, we look at the marketplace to provide clues; clues in which the smart 
money is going to be uƟlizing the liquidity that's made available for willing or unwilling 
liquidity in the form of the funds and uninformed money. 
You have to think like that liquidity provider. 
Price is delivered to engineer eﬃciency for the smart money enƟƟes only. 
Let’s take a look at some examples(see below): 
 
I want you to take a look at the high at point 1,price has a nice run away from that so that 
very nice intermediate term high(at point 1) put an impulse price swing moving lower and 
we have a gap in there(a fair value gap from the low of the up candle that makes the 
intermediate term high at point 1 to the high of the next up candle to its right side).It’s 
graphically shown below: 
 
So we’re going to watch price as it trades. That’s just a reacƟonary level that we’re going to 
be waiƟng for in the future so this is how we stalk the setup. 

--- Page 247 ---
247 
 
Price starts to rally up(as shown in screenshot below): 
 
And it trades into that 1.5234 level right there. The day that occurs is 11/12/2015. 
Let’s checkout the screenshot right below: 
 

--- Page 248 ---
248 
 
So on the right hand side, we have the 15 minute Ɵmeframe for 11/12/2015 and we’re going 
to  delineate that same high at 1.5234 as shown right below: 
 
And we see price hiƫng it in the 15-minute Ɵmeframe and i want you to look at how the low 
at point 2 connected to that of point 3, projected out and eventually has another third Ɵme 
hiƫng it. So trend lines followers see that as a potenƟal conƟnuaƟon to go higher. 
Problem is, we have a daily insƟtuƟonal reference point and we’ve closed that in so we 
would be looking for the next area of liquidity(shaded in the screenshot right below): 
 
We’re going to wait for price to come down into the down candle’s high(1.5060) as shown in 
screenshot right above.  
So we know there’s a possibility to see price want to drop lower based on liquidity.  
We have trend lines in here that would be reasonable in terms of retail drawings expecƟng 
some bullish prices. 

--- Page 249 ---
249 
 
Market trades down into the low at point 4 which we’ll look at. Let me zoom out a couple 
minutes. 
But we have a low at point 5 and another at point 6. ProjecƟng those lows out in Ɵme, we 
can see price coming down to that third Ɵme.Does it make a bullish scenario? No. 
We are going to be looking for price to come down and close in  the liquidity void between 
points 7 and 8. 
And we have sell stops below the low at point 4. Price went down, closed the void and took 
the sell stops at point 4 and ulƟmately reached the 1.5060 level. 
 
Let’s take a look at some down trending or bearish trend lines that are actually buy 
scenarios(Let’s focus on the screenshot right below): 
 
We have a nice run up from point 1. Two candles right for the up move. We have a down 
candle hit that 1.4385 level. 

--- Page 250 ---
250 
 
Let’s add the 1.4385 level to the lower Ɵmeframe chart at the right side(as shown below): 
 
You price trading down into it at point 3, hiƫng it one more Ɵme at point 5. We have a high 
at point 2 and a lower high at point 4 and the third Ɵme price hits it at point 6. 
We see this as a sell. No, we don’t see this as a turtle soup long or a return back to a bullish 
order block so we could be a buyer at 1.4385 or 1.4390 on a limit or if we can get a ﬁll at 
1.4380 or lower, we’re going to buy down here with the expectaƟon that this is a false 
trendline(2,4,6) and we would be looking for the high at point 4 . Should anyone be short, all 
their protecƟve buy stops will be above the high at point 4. 
Price rallies away(as shown below): 
 
You would then be permiƩed to see lower prices because we’ve seen the highs taken out in 
the form of buy stops. Then the liquidity below points 3 and 5 would be allowed to be 

--- Page 251 ---
251 
 
tested(as shown below): 
 
UnƟl next Ɵme, I wish you good luck and good trading. 
 
 
