

--- PAGE 216 ---

216 
 
Month 3:  
Video 5:  Inside Price Ac Ɵon: InsƟtuƟonal Market Structure:  
 
Okay folks, welcome back to the ﬁ Ōh of eight teachings with the Month of November 2016 
ICT Membership. We're looking at Inside Price Ac Ɵon — InsƟtuƟonal Market Structure.  
What is Ins ƟtuƟonal Market Structure?  
It's the analysis of correlated assets with a rela Ɵonship to inversely correlated assets. The 
purpose is to determine what the smart money is accumula Ɵng or distribu Ɵng. 
Currencies are the easiest to analyze with ins ƟtuƟonal market structure, and we u Ɵlize the 
Dollar Index. Every price swing should be studied to determine if market symmetry conﬁrms 
it. 
How Do We Iden Ɵfy InsƟtuƟonal Market Structure in Forex?  
We compare every price swing in the Dollar Index with the foreign currency that we trade.  
As the US Dollar Index trades higher, we reasonably expect a lower price swing in foreign 
currency pairs. If the US Dollar Index or a foreign currency pair fails to move symmetrically, 
smart money is ac Ɵvely trading.  
As the US Dollar Index trades lower, we reasonably expect a higher price swing in foreign 
currency pairs. If the US Dollar Index or a foreign currency pair fails to move symmetrically, 
again, smart money is ac Ɵvely trading.  


--- PAGE 217 ---

217 
 
 
 
US Dollar Index SMT Divergence  
 
Let's take a closer look at what this concept actually means. We'll be referring to the US 
Dollar Index SMT Divergence . SMT stands for Smart Money Tool  or Smart Money 
Technique , and we're going to be looking for a divergence between closely correlated or 
inversely correlated assets. 
Obviously, if we expect the Dollar Index to trade higher, that's going to put downward 
pressure on foreign currencies. If we're expec Ɵng the Dollar Index to trade lower, that's 
going to allow foreign currencies to rally. 
Symmetrical Market Condi Ɵons 
In a symmetrical market condi Ɵon, when the Dollar Index makes a lower low, we expect 
foreign currencies to make a higher high. When we see this, it conﬁrms current price ac Ɵon 
and the underlying trend is likely to con Ɵnue. In fact, the idea of stalking  reversal pa Ʃerns in 
this condi Ɵon is not highly probable — you want to avoid it altogether. 
Reading the Dollar Index  
For instance, let's take a look at the Dollar Index. We're going to look at the likelihood of that 
old low being violated. If we see that old low violated and we see a higher high in the foreign 
currency, that conﬁrms the down move in the Dollar Index. And even though it trades back 
above a short-term high, that short-term high is going to be just a run on buy stops — and 
then the Dollar Index will most likely resume going lower. This is one of the ways I can go 
into the marketplace and an Ɵcipate a Turtle  Soup before it actually happens. 
Applying the Same Logic to Foreign Currencies  
The same principle applies to foreign currencies. If we see a higher high in the foreign 
currency while the Dollar Index makes that lower low, price is conﬁrmed — meaning the 


--- PAGE 218 ---

218 
 
underlying direc Ɵon is sƟll intact. So any movement down in the foreign currency pairs 
below a swing low or short-term low means they're gathering up the sell stops below the 
marketplace. That's where they're going to be accumula Ɵng new long posi Ɵons, and then 
the foreign currency pairs will be allowed to trade higher and make a new higher high. 
 
 
 
 
 
Conﬁrmed Trend Con ƟnuaƟon — Dollar Index Higher High / Foreign Currency Lower Low  
 
When the Dollar Index makes a higher high and the foreign currency makes a lower low, this 
too conﬁrms current price ac Ɵon and the underlying trend is likely to con Ɵnue. Again, the 
idea of stalking reversal pa Ʃerns in this condi Ɵon is not high probabi lity and should be 
avoided. 
Reading the Run on Buy Stops  
Once the Dollar Index makes a higher high and the foreign currency makes a lower low, any 
run above the short- term high in foreign currencies is many Ɵmes going to be a run on buy 
stops up in the marketplace — and then you'll see another sell-oﬀ making a lower low. 
The Contrary for the Dollar Index  
The same is said in reverse for the Dollar Index. When the market trades back below that 
short-term low, it's going to gather up sell stops to pair new buying with, and then it will 
most likely trade higher and make a new higher high. 
 
  


--- PAGE 219 ---

219 
 
 
 
Non-Symmetrical Market Condi Ɵons — USDX SMT Divergence  
 
Scenario 1: Dollar Index Makes a Lower Low / Foreign Currency Fails to Make a Higher High  
When the Dollar Index makes a lower low and the foreign currency fails to trade higher than 
a previous high, this is US Dollar Index SMT  (USDX SMT). This does not conﬁrm current price 
acƟon, and the underlying trend is likely not to con Ɵnue. However, the idea of stalking 
reversal pa Ʃerns in this condi Ɵon is high probability and could reasonably be considered.  
That lower low on the Dollar Index is indica Ɵng that it is most likely going down below a 
previous low to wipe out the sell stops, accumulate new buying, and a rally in the Dollar 
should ensue. If the Dollar is going to rally, that means there's going to be downward 
pressure on foreign currencies — and it has already shown itself in the form of weakness, 
with the foreign currency making a lower high as a failure swing. 
 


--- PAGE 220 ---

220 
 
 
Scenario 2: Dollar Index Fails to Make a Higher High / Foreign Currencies Make a Lower 
Low 
Again, looking at non- symmetrical market condi Ɵons — when the Dollar Index fails to make 
a higher high while foreign currencies make a lower low, the same principle applies, just 
illustrated in a diﬀerent context. 
This is showing that the Dollar Index is failing to make a higher high, meaning there is 
underlying weakness. Meanwhile, a lower low is seen in foreign currency pairs. They're 
going down below a previous low to accumulate all the sell stops on foreign currency pairs, 
and then they'll rally the market higher. The Dollar Index will sell oﬀ, which supports foreign 
currency long posi Ɵons, and the underlying weakness indicated by the Dollar Index making a 
lower high fuels those market moves. 
The idea of stalking reversal pa Ʃerns in this condi Ɵon is high probability and could 
reasonably be considered. 
 


--- PAGE 221 ---

221 
 
 
 
Case Study — GBPUSD (The Cable) Daily Chart  
 
Now let's take a look at a case study. What does this actually look like in price? 
We're looking at a daily chart of the Bri Ɵsh Pound/USD — or as we call it, the Cable . NoƟce 
the highs in here: we have a higher high formed in Pound/Dollar around the end of April 
going into mid-June of 2016. 
 
 
In the same Ɵme frame we see the dollar  index making a low in april Ɵme period going into 
mid-june. B ut noƟce the diﬀerence between the two.  
  


--- PAGE 222 ---

222 
 
Going back to the Pound/Dollar, we have a higher high forming in the middle part of June 
2016. By itself, at the Ɵme when it was rallying up, it probably looked very posi Ɵve and 
bullish to everyone — but if that's the case, if there is a symmetrical mark et condiƟon, what 
should we be seeing on the Dollar Index? We should be seeing a lower low. 
Do we see a lower low form on the Dollar Index? No. 
That's it — USDX SMT Bullish Divergence.  
What does that mean? We're seeing underlying strength in the Dollar Index. And even 
though this looks bullish on the Bri Ɵsh Pound, it's really just taking the buy stops above the 
1.4760 level. Once those stops are ran out, the market does in fact turn. 
The underlying strength in the Dollar Index allows us to look at the 93.80 to 94.00  big ﬁgure. 
 
 
This down candle in here (the down candle the cursor is placed on in the screenshot right 
above) that may become a future order block that we could trade at. Once the void right 
aŌer that down candle is closed in,we know that there’s underlying strength in the dollar 
index because there was an unwillingness to see that lower low formed as we saw the 
higher high form in cable. 
 


--- PAGE 223 ---

223 
 
 
Reading the Stop Run — Retail Percep Ɵon vs. Ins ƟtuƟonal Reality  
 
Again, you can see that higher high piercing an old high — that's going to be a run on stops 
above the 1.4760 level. Now it trades almost up into 1.5065, which is several hundred pips, 
but this is a daily chart so we need to be cognizant of that. Nonetheless, we're looking at 
insƟtuƟonal market structure.  
By all indica Ɵons, when the market was rallying up, retail traders and less informed traders 
would see that as a bullish breakout. But it's not conﬁrmed — because the Dollar Index is 
not showing a corresponding lower low. 
 
 
What the Divergence Is Actually Telling Us  


--- PAGE 224 ---

224 
 
 
We see the same thing we men Ɵoned earlier, just graphically described here. The higher low 
formed on the Dollar Index should have created a lower low as the Cable made a higher high 
— and it didn't. What is that actually giving us? It's giving us great insight into what is being 
accumulated. The Dollar Index is being accumulated on the long side — otherwise it would 
have been permi Ʃed to go lower.  
If we see that, and we can see a foreign currency pair shoo Ɵng higher and essen Ɵally acƟng 
on its own accord, that's not by accident. It is absolutely a manipula Ɵon. So if we understand 
where the manipula Ɵon is taking place in the marketplace, we can go in and capitalize on it. 
Why Be Bullish on the Dollar?  
We can now focus primarily on being bullish on the Dollar. Why? Because the Dollar was 
unwilling to make a lower low — and the only reason that can happen is if it's being bought 
aggressively. Otherwise, they would simply wait for lower prices. 
Since they were unwilling to wait for lower prices in the middle of June 2016, we have to 
focus primarily on being a buyer of the Dollar. And that means pu ƫng sell signals — a 
bearish stance — on all foreign currencies, looking to be a seller. This is the reason why all 
through the second half of 2016, the bias has been Dollar bull. 
 
 
 
Case Study 2 — Cable Daily Chart: Late August to Early September 2016(as shown in 
screenshot right above)  
 
Let's take a look at another example. We're going to be using the daily chart again because I 
want to build the idea that you don't have to be a day trader — having these ideas will help 
us maintain a long-term to intermediate- term perspec Ɵve on the marke tplace. 


--- PAGE 225 ---

225 
 
We're going to turn our a ƩenƟon to the la Ʃer porƟon of August 2016 t o the ﬁrst week of 
September. You can see that the Cable made a higher high(run through point 1 to point 2), 
and by all indica Ɵons it looked very bullish — price was running through an old high. At the 
same Ɵme, the low on the Dollar Index did not see another lower low (as indicated at points 
3 and 4). So as the Cable was pressing higher and rallying, the Dollar Index should have seen 
a lower low. It did not. 
What that indicates is, again, Dollar-based strength. In other words, the Dollar Index is being 
accumulated on the long side, while the Cable is being distributed — distributed above an 
old high. 
Understanding the Distribu Ɵon Above Old Highs  
Now, looking le Ō, we can see this same distribu Ɵon occurring above a previous old high (at 
point 5) as well. So we can go and frame another level for a Turtle Soup — a false break 
above a high — to run what? What type of stops reside above an old high? Buy stops.  Why 
would they want to take the market to a buy stop? Because they want that buy stop to 
execute at the market. When it buys at the market, smart money sells their long posi Ɵons — 
posiƟons they accumulated at lower prices (at points 6 and 7) — at a higher price(point 2) to 
willing buyers up here(point 5) . That is distribu Ɵon. 
It's being distributed at an old high, while accumula Ɵon is seen in strength because the 
Dollar can't go lower. Think about it this way: if the Dollar doesn't go lower, it's because it's 
being held — kept at price — while the premium is being built into the Pound/Dollar. 
Retail vs. Smart Money  
Retail chases this run and the false breakout, while smart money looks at failure swings and 
the lows. When you see what would otherwise look like strength and breakouts on the 
upside in foreign currencies, always double-check them with the Dollar Index. If you don't 
see the corresponding move, then you know that the false breakout on the upside in the 
foreign currency market is a sucker play. That's retail candy land — everyone is going to be 
looking to go long on those false breakouts in foreign currencies, while smart money is 
focused on the Dollar's unwillingness to go lower. 
Framing the Date Range  
This low(point 3) — and the speciﬁc date range I've framed here — is simply to give you a 
sample size of price ac Ɵon to study. I want you to see just how strong it is in terms of giving 
us a long-term to intermediate- term perspec Ɵve on market direc Ɵon. 
This is a daily chart. They're keeping price at a higher price low(point 4) and not blowing out 
the previous low. We see the unwillingness to hold higher prices in the Bri Ɵsh Pound/USD — 
they quickly drop it lower because it has been distributed, leaving retail holding the bag. 
When accumulated long posi Ɵons start moving higher, every retracement should be 
expected to see another expansion to the upside. We can see this graphically using the price 
chart, and I also use a dedicated overlay tool on the MT4 pla ƞorm — which I'm going to 
show you now. 
 

--- PAGE 226 ---

226 
 
 
Puƫng It All Together — InsƟtuƟonal Market Structure as a Trading Framework  
 
When we look at iden Ɵfying insƟtuƟonal market structure, what we're basically doing is 
weighing the underlying strength of the buying and selling at respec Ɵve highs and lows in 
the Dollar Index versus foreign currencies. 
If you pick one par Ɵcular currency pair and iden Ɵfy areas like this on a daily chart, it gives 
you a long- term perspec Ɵve where you can be focused primarily on one direc Ɵon. That 
means: 
 If you are a short-term trader , you could be looking to sell short at every 60-minute 
or 4-hour bearish order block. 
 If you are a day trader , you could be selling above the opening price above the 
midnight candle in New York, capturing all those types of moves going lower. 
A Framework, Not Ambiguity  
This gives you an ideal context to work within and a clear framework. It doesn't give you 
ambiguity — it gives you a very speciﬁc frame of mindset going in. Knowing that if this is a 
daily chart and we're seeing underlying strength in the Dollar and poten Ɵal distribu Ɵon in 
the BriƟsh Pound/USD, most likely we're going to see lower prices on the Cable. That way we 
can be a buyer on Dollar-based currencies, or a seller on foreign currencies paired up with 
the Dollar Index. 
 
Hopefully you found this insigh ƞul. UnƟl next Ɵme — good luck and good trading. 
 
 
 