--- Page 252 ---
252 
 
Month 3: 
Video 8: Market Maker Trap: Head & Shoulders Pa Ʃern
 
For the month of November 2016, ICT mentorship, we're talking about false tops and 
boƩom paƩerns as it relates to classical head and shoulders. Now, head and shoulders 
paƩern is typically seen with a price high that trades in a small li Ʃle retracement,  then it 
creates a higher high, and it retraces back lower and it creates another lower price peak or 
short-term high. And then, connec Ɵng those three successive peaks in price, we classically 
refer to that as the neckline. And classical support resistance ideas are seen here where, if 
that neckline is broken, many Ɵmes you'll see it retrace or pull back up to that neckline and 
then sell oﬀ again. 
 
In the form of selec Ɵng targets, you can measure the range from the neckline up to the head 
or the highest peak and subtract that range from the neckline once price breaks below it, 
and it will give you a reasonable price objec Ɵve. Now, the problem with this pa Ʃern is 
because it's taught in all of our retail books and such, every trader out there, when they ﬁrst 
get in their charts, they're always looking for these types of pa Ʃerns. But generally, price will 
form these genuinely at intermediate or long-term highs only, and due to the low 
understanding of most retail traders, they tend to seek these classic topping pa Ʃerns on 
lower Ɵme frames.  And many Ɵmes at a signiﬁcant low in price- but they marry the pa Ʃern. 
  

--- Page 253 ---
253 
 
 
The opposite is referred to as an inverted head and shoulders pa Ʃern. This is a false pa Ʃern, 
false boƩom paƩern, we're going to be teaching in here so we're not really teaching these 
classical pa Ʃerns. They can be found on the internet. I'm not going  to teach that, but what 
I'm actually going to tell you is how you can capitalize on these pa Ʃerns when they appear in 
charts and our higher Ɵme frame premise indicates the opposite direc Ɵon is unfolding. But 
an inverted head and shoulders pa Ʃern is typically seen with a short-term low that's met 
with a lower low, then it makes a higher short-term low, and you connect the highs that form 
around those three successive lower lows and we refer to that as the neckline. Eventually, 
should price trade above that neckline, classically you would expect a pullback in price or 
retrace it back down to the neckline and then advance me up to the target, and the range 
from the neckline down to the lowest low of those three lows added to the neckline once 
the price bre aks through it that would give you a reasonable upside objec Ɵve. Now again, 
much in the same way, generally price will form these genuinely at intermediate or long-
term lows. And again, much like we said with the regular classical head and shoulders 
paƩern, due to the low understanding of most retail traders, they go into the lower Ɵme 
frames and they start looking for this classic modern pa Ʃern on lower Ɵme frame charts, 
and many Ɵmes at a signiﬁcant high in price. But much like you probably done wh en you ﬁrst 
started the trader, you get these textbooks and you get these ideas and you go in, you force 
the understanding of what you learned out of the books into the charts. So therefore, you 
learned about head and shoulders pa Ʃerns so therefore there  must be a head and shoulders 
paƩern right now, so let's go in there and trade it. And unfortunately, it doesn't always 
equate to proﬁtability. When I ﬁrst started as a futures trader, this was one of the pa Ʃerns 
that were really promoted hard because it's the idea that you want to catch a high and you 
want to catch a bo Ʃom, and picking tops and bo Ʃoms is one of the worst games to play, 
especially the new trader. Because number one, even seasoned pros don't do that. We don't 
pick tops and bo Ʃoms. We can trade with rather impressive accuracy in catching signiﬁcant 
intermediate term lows and short-term lows and highs. But as it relates to long-term tops 
and boƩoms, I try to avoid that and I actually promote the idea of doing the same thing in 
your own trading. Try not to do that. But one of the coolest things I've learned by going 
through ins ƟtuƟonal order ﬂow studies and watching how interbank pricing is delivered, it 

--- Page 254 ---
254 
 
allows me to go in and actually see these pa Ʃerns when they form in price charts. If I have 
an indicaƟon that the price is actually going to go higher and I see a head and shoulders 
paƩern, which would be a false top in my opinion but in the charts reta il will see that as a 
top forming, conversely looking at it inverted head and shoulders which would be classically 
viewed as a bullish pa Ʃern in price, if I see that happening when the market is actually 
bearish I would be looking to go short. 
 
Let’s go back to the standard head and shoulders pa Ʃern(as shown below):  
 
When you look at the neckline, what I see there is an opportunity to be long once the 
neckline is broken on the downside, especially if we are in an ins ƟtuƟonally trained bullish 
environment. That means if we're in a long term or intermediate term low and it forms a 
successive three peaks in price moving higher, which would be classically viewed as a head 
shoulders pa Ʃern, um char Ɵst pure char Ɵst would see that as a bearish indica Ɵon, especially 
newbie traders or less informed traders. I like seeing when price does that because, to me, 
it's a retail trap and marke Ɵng is actually designing classical chart pa Ʃerns in price where 
you can actually get tripped up thinking just because you saw a head shoulders forma Ɵon 
and the neckline's broken. Um, when that neckline is broken, I don't see that pullback as a 
resuming lower or a new selling scenario. I see that as a turtle soup long that took out two 
previous lows where the clean lows were there. I look at that as a buying opportunity, so I'll 
buy the sell stops below those equal lows or where the neckline is, and then I'll look for the 
head or the highest peak to be violated, and I'll try to pair up my long exits with the buy 
stops above the highest high in this pa Ʃern, and that would be my ﬁrst objec Ɵve. 
 
For the inverted head and shoulders, I would do the opposite. If I'm looking for price ac Ɵon 
to be bearish, as a higher Ɵme frame would indicate, and I see a low with a lower low and a 
higher low—which would be deemed as an inverted head and shoulders—I don't see that as 
a bullish breakout above the neckline. I'm actually looking at that as a run on buy stops, and 
I'm going to look to go short there and not expect to see price go higher, but in fact blow out 

--- Page 255 ---
255 
 
those equal highs and then make a run for the sell stops below what would be deemed as 
the head on this pa Ʃern or would be the lowest low and most recent price ac Ɵon. You can 
actually take your ﬁrst proﬁt at the right shoulder on both these pa Ʃerns respec Ɵvely. But 
let's take a look at a couple chart examples and you can see what this pa Ʃern looks like in 
price. 
See screenshot right below: 
 
We are looking at the daily chart for the GBPUSD or cable and i want you to take a look at 
the down candle the arrow points to(in the screenshot above) right before the up move. 
We’ve consolidated for a while. Price came down and hit that same orderblock. It closed in 
the fair value gap between the high to the midway point of the candle and look at the candle 
right next to it. 
Price came down and respected that range as shown graphically below: 
 

--- Page 256 ---
256 
 
The day the arrow points to (in the screenshot right above) is 10th August and it traded 
through the last down candle that formed before 10th August (making the down candle a 
bullish orderblock). So from the down candle’s high down to its opening becomes sensi Ɵve to 
be a buyer.  
The high of the bullish orderblock is 1.5546 so on the 12th of August,we traded down into it. 
Now that’s bullish on the daily so let’s take a look at an hourly chart that same Ɵme on 12th 
August(as shown below): 
 
So we have the market making a high at point 1, a higher high at point 2 and a lower high at 
point 3 and we have two equal lows at points 4 and 5. So we have what? We have a head 
and shoulders pa Ʃern.Retail traders are going to see that as a selling scenario so they are 
going to look for a break of the neckline and then take the range from the high down to that 
neckline and subtract that. That would give them their objec Ɵve for going short.  
We did not expect that because on the daily chart we’re expec Ɵng the bullish orderblock to 
send prices higher. 
So while we see a regular head and shoulders pa Ʃern which would be classical bearishness 
in the part of price ac Ɵon study. 
As it relates to ins ƟtuƟonal order ﬂow we’re looking at the run below the lows at points 4 
and 5 as a run on sell stops. So we’re looking at the market to go below there to pair up 
orders to go long. We see the move below the the equal lows(at points 4 and 5) as an 
opportunity to buy those sell stops. 
We’re going to be looking for point 2 as our upside objec Ɵve to take proﬁts . 

--- Page 257 ---
257 
 
See how our trade pans out in the screenshot below: 
 
So that’s an objec Ɵve of using the head and shoulders pa Ʃern against what retail would 
expect and using high Ɵmeframe ins ƟtuƟonal order ﬂow on the daily chart;reading it as the 
banks would. 
 
 
Let’s take another example: 
 
The screenshot above is the daily chart for the GBPUSD. The down candle at point 1 before 
the big move up, equal highs at points 2 and 3(buy stops above equal highs).The rally up 
from point 1 takes out those buy stops and it comes all the way up and closes in its 
range(closing in the liquidity void).The down candle at point 1 was a bullish orderblock which 
is used to break the buy stops(at points 2 and 3)  so when price trades below the down 

--- Page 258 ---
258 
 
candle and comes back up to it at point 4,we’re inside of a breaker and that’s a bearish 
environment. 1.5345 to 1.5350, in that area we are looking for a reason to expect some kind 
of a bearishness but there’s going to be on a lower Ɵmeframe. Retail will see pa Ʃerns like 
this(shown in screenshot right below): 
 
We have a low, a lower low and a higher low. This is an inverted head and shoulders pa Ʃern. 
Let’s draw our neckline on the chart(drawn in red as shown below): 
 

--- Page 259 ---
259 
 
Let’s also draw what would be considered the inverted head and shoulders neckline(as 
shown below): 
 
And the diﬀerence would be from the low (where the cursor is in the screenshot above) up 
to the inverted head and shoulders neckline once we break above it. 
Check the screenshot right below: 
 
Price trades above it(breaking the neckline). The stops below the head would be targeted so 
selling up there on a break above the neckline not looking at that as bullishness and return 
for higher prices but looking for it to sell oﬀ .  
So we would look for that run to sell into the buy stops above the highs that are form the 
inverted head and shoulders neckline. 
That’s why I would expect to see some bearishness and then we would wait for a run below 
the head. It does give a lot more than that here but nonetheless it’s not a bad li Ʃle trade. 

--- Page 260 ---
260 
 
So again, it's you look for the pa Ʃern because retail will look for the pa Ʃern, but you're 
going to fade that pa Ʃern based on what you see on the higher Ɵme frames. We look for 
insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow to jus Ɵfy why this should be bearish up in here; we should be looking 
for reasons to be selling, not buying. And if we see inverted head and shoulders pa Ʃerns on 
the lower Ɵme frames, retail's gonna be all over that, looking for bullish, you know, upside 
moves, and that's not what you see here at all. Hopefully you found this one insigh ƞul as 
well. We're going to be a Ʃacking a lot of the retail -minded classical chart pa Ʃerns 
throughout this ICT mentorship, so this is just the beginning of two that will fall vic Ɵm to 
insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow. Un Ɵl next Ɵme, I wish you good luck and good trading.  