--- Page 227 ---
227 
 
Month 3: 
Video 6: Macro Economic To Micro Technical
 
Welcome back folks. This is the sixth of eight teachings in the November 2016 curriculum of 
the ICT mentorship. Okay, we're gonna be teaching macroeconomic to micro technical. Okay, 
and I'm showing you here one of the secrets to how I'm able to call the markets as I do. And 
it's a macro perspec Ɵve, so in other words, it's not a day trading perspec Ɵve. It's not 
something that's going to be forcing you to look at 15-minute charts, not even an hourly 
chart, not even a four hour chart. Okay, we're gonna be looking at daily charts only. And you 
probably are wondering why is there a top secret image here at the bo Ʃom? Well, below 
this cover is going to be one of the closest guarded secrets of my repertoire. And when I look 
at the marketplace, I use this as a barometer to help me determine where the long-term 
trend of the marketplace is going. Now, there's a lot of folks that will scour bank reports, and 
my opinion of bank reports are this: why would a bank tell you what their inten Ɵons are? It 
doesn't make any sense. That's like having a football team tell you what their plays are going 
to be for the Super Bowl; it just doesn't happen. So, when I look at the marketplace and I'm 
looking for a long-term macro view, I'm looking for an insight that would give me a three to 
six month outlook on where currencies may be heading in what direc Ɵon. And one of the 
things I use for that is interest rates, and the way we ﬁnd interest rates, the way I do it is I'm 

--- Page 228 ---
228 
 
looking at the bond market. 
 
The 30-year treasury market will give me the insights I need for interest rates on an 
intermediate to long-term basis. Long-term to me is three to six months; it may not be long-
term for you, but it is for me. So what I look for is every three to four months there is a 
quarterly shi Ō that takes place. And what I mean by that is whatever trend or whatever 
market condi Ɵon is prevalent for right now, in three to four months Ɵme, there's usually a 
shiŌ. Okay, there's either a reversal or it's an extended period of consolida Ɵon and then a 
future resump Ɵon of the trend or, again, you know, a reversal. But every three or four 
months, I'm looking for a change in direc Ɵon because I believe there is a quarterly shi Ō that 
takes place in the marketplace, and you'll learn a lot about that later on this mentorship. But 
for now, I want to teach you how I use the bond market and how you use the interest rates 
as a precursor for where the markets may go. I don't require a whole lot of fundamental 
data to siŌ through. I don't believe I have enough Ɵme in the day to go through all that. I 
know there's a lot of folks that would probably hear me say that and scoﬀ at the no Ɵon that, 
you know, fundamentals are, you know, that's the backbone to the marketplace, you need to 
know those things. And my submission to that is, uh, you know, who can keep up with that? 
You know, I don't have Ɵme to keep up with it. You know, I'm busy running a life. I don't have 
the Ɵme to be si Ōing through all that informa Ɵon and, quite frank ly, I'm not that astute to be 
able to discern what that data is. So what I require is a visual interpreta Ɵon of that data. And 
what I subscribe to is the bond market will tell me that. If I can read price ac Ɵon in the bond 
market—and not just the bond market, but we're going to look at the 10-year notes as 
well—if we can get a feel for what the market's wan Ɵng to do, whether it be trade higher or 

--- Page 229 ---
229 
 
lower, then we can have a pre Ʃy good basis on what the interest rate market is going to do.  
 
So what we’re looking at(in the screenshot right above) about June, July,August Ɵme period. 
The top chart is the dollar index daily chart and the lower chart is the treasury bond market. 
This is the December contract, okay? So, December contract for the dollar index above us in 
the futures market, and the December contract for the bond market on the lower end. Okay, 
so the lower chart is the bond market. Between July and August, there was a high that 
formed in the bond market, and for those that follow alo ng on the Twi Ʃer and on my 
YouTube channel, this summer I men Ɵoned that the debt market is going to have a major 
decline, and I said that that was going to happen. I also said it was going to happen in the 
bond—I said it would happen across all the debt instruments. So, basically, what I was 
implying was that interest rates were going to go higher. If interest rates are going to go 
higher, that's going to allow the dollar index to go higher, okay? But when interest rates are 
going higher, that means that the bond market is going to drop. As the bond market rallies, 
that's a lowering of interest rates, and when it drops down in the futures market for the 
bond market, that is an increase in interest rates, okay? Now, the 30-year treasury bond is 
the benchmark for what we have in the US as our mortgage rate. We put a house on the 
market for purchase; someone wants a ball and chain debt program to pay oﬀ a house for 30 
years, the interest rate that's arrived at this market pre Ʃy much is the benchmark for it. 
There is another interest rate asset market that I look at, which is the 10-year; now, I'll look 
at that, we'll look at that later on in this teaching but what I want you to look at is when the 
bond market is making a high is the same Ɵme the dollar index is making a low  and vice 
versa. 
From the screenshot above, in the last week of June,we have the dollar index making a low 
and the market failed to make a lower low at the same Ɵme that the bond market was 
making a higher high. Now, in lesson 5 of this month’s teaching, I taught you the smt 
divergence relaƟve to the dollar index and foreign currencies . The same idea is applied here 
but for an interest rate divergence. In other words we’re looking at how the bond market 
interacts with the dollar index.  

--- Page 230 ---
230 
 
So around every three to four months there’s going to be this shi Ō that takes place . This 
underlying change in trend is seen in the dollar index with the failure to make a lower low at 
the same Ɵme the bond market made a higher high.  Market traded so Ōer at the same Ɵme 
all the way into the last week midweek point of August,we saw a consolida Ɵon in the bond 
market as well. Then we saw the movement higher on the dollar index at the same Ɵme 
we’re seeing weakness in the bond market which means interests rates are increasing which 
means now we have the dollar index pulling back into a down candle(as shown below with 
the cursor on it): 
 
That down candle is a bullish order block so we can expect to see price may move higher on 
the dollar which will send the bond market lower. 
 
So when we see the rally up from point A to B,it is returning back to an up candle which is a 
bearish order block and it sells oﬀ again.The sell oﬀ accelerates the buying in the dollar. So if 
the dollar is going to accelerate going higher, let’s go back to the Ɵme period within where 

--- Page 231 ---
231 
 
the cursor is placed in the screenshot right below: 
 
Let’s go back and reﬂect on the analysis i was giving in the mentorship. You all know that I 
was looking at this par Ɵcular Ɵme period right here on the dollar and I said we were going to 
start going higher and we’re gonna be looking for that one hundred dollar mark dependency 
102 mark and the reason why I suspected that was gonna happen is number one I was 
looking at the dollar pairs that are started with the usd as in their name like the dollar cad, 
dollar swissy, dollar yen. I was looking for dollar cad and it just supported the idea that we 
were going to go long here and at this same Ɵme, the bond market was rallying up returning 
to a bearish order block so i knew what to expect was to see if we turned the Ɵde at point B 
and start going lower on bonds,that drop down in bonds is an increase in interest rates. An 
increase in interest rates is going to see an aggressive pouring in of funds to buy up the 
dollar. 
So that’s what we’re seeing in the dollar index as that aggressive rally up from October.  
The market showed a willingness to drop lower from point C to D  and at the same Ɵme 
there was a small li Ʃle decline in the dollar index at the Ɵme the bond market was 
dropping.Small li Ʃle deviaƟon from what would be considered the normal and that was all 
aƩributed to the US elec Ɵons. Obviously Trump won and the futures market were tanking 
and the dollar index sank and the dow jones futures were down like 700 points at one Ɵme 
overnight and all of a sudden very next morning,everything was pieces and cream and it’s 

--- Page 232 ---
232 
 
been rocke Ɵng up since in 10 days in a row the market’s been rallying up for the dollar index.  
 
At the same Ɵme, we’ve seen an accelerated sell -oﬀ in the bond market which means 
there’s an increase in interest rates. So when we look at the marketplace like this u Ɵlizing 
the bond market to help us , we can use that same idea as it relates to looking at divergence 
between the bond market and the dollar index.  
So with that said, I’m not going to go into great detail because obviously you know what I 
mean by that by using what was taught to you in the ﬁ Ōh teaching of this month’s content.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 233 ---
233 
 
 
Okay folks, in the screenshot above, we have the 10- year note to the le Ō and 30-year bond 
to the right.I want you to take a look at the smt divergence that we have in these two charts. 
Okay and I’m going to take a look at the currency markets and see how that assisted us in 
analysis.  
Again, this is a long term to intermediate term concept so it’s aimed at giving you the next 3 
to 6 months outlook on where currency should be going . 
Take a look at the 10- year note here, making a higher high here, at the same Ɵme 30-year 
made a lower high. Bond market took oﬀ lower, so the second week of September we saw 
interest rates increasing by the eﬀects of the bond market and 10-year note declining. Then 
we saw the last week of September going into October, we saw this higher high form in 10-
year, while we saw a lower high or SMT divergence in the 30-year, and then immediately we 
saw another decline in both 10-year and 30-year, which is an increase in interest rates. So 
right away we know that there should be an accelerated buy or a rally in the second week of 
September and the last week of September for the dollar, so let's take a look at that. 
 

--- Page 234 ---
234 
 
 
From the screenshot above(daily chart for the dollar index),for the ﬁrst week of 
September,here is that low(at point 1) we would expect because we saw an increase in 
interest rates as a result of the sell-oﬀ with the divergence between the 10-year and the 30-
year bond market and in the last week of September we saw the market maker rally away 
from point 2 as well.  
Now, if we that in the dollar index, we should be seeing rallies in dollar swiss(as shown in 
screenshot below): 
 
Sofrom the screenshot right above, it rallies from the ﬁrst week of September(from point 1) 
and also rallies in the last week of September(from point 2) so we see that same eﬀect 
appearing as well in that dollar pair.  

--- Page 235 ---
235 
 
Let’s take a look at the dollar cad(as shown in screenshot below): 
 
It rallies in the ﬁrst and last weeks of September as well.  
 
Let’s take a look at the euro(as shown in screenshot below): 
 
This is going to be the opposite. We’re going to see a high formed in the ﬁrst week of 
September(as shown in point 1 in screenshot above) and then it sells oﬀ again in the last 
week of September(at point 2).  
 

--- Page 236 ---
236 
 
Let’s take a look at the pound dollar(as shown in screenshot below): 
 
For the pound, we should be seeing a the high formed in second week of September(point 
1) and a sell oﬀ to the last week of September(point 2).  
 
Let’s take a look at the dollar yen: 
 
We have a low that formed in the ﬁrst week of September(at point 1) and the last week of 
September(point 2). There’s that buy and it takes oﬀ and it’s taken oﬀ extremely high.  
So again, it's a macro perspec Ɵve using macroeconomic principles, interest rates, and then 
uƟlizing that down to a micro technical. So, we can take all this informa Ɵon and, from the 
month of September, start looking for a reason to be a buyer for all the dollar-based 
currencies that start with the dollar ﬁrst in their name. We would be going long on those 
pairs. 
 

--- Page 237 ---
237 
 
Let’s take a look at the NZDUSD: 
 
So we should see a sell oﬀ in the ﬁrst week of the month(at point 1) and also at the last 
week of the month(at point 2).  
 
Let’s take a look at the AUDUSD: 
 
 You can see sell oﬀs in the ﬁrst week of September(at point 1) and in the last week of 
September(at point 2).  
 
So again, it helps you, it builds an idea about where the market should go because of the 
underlying fundamentals which I don't have to go through fundamental reports to do all 
that. I can rely on the interest rate markets that I know which is the bond market and 10-
year note. Couple that with the dollar index, it's like a dependence in the long term for you 
and no one can take it from you.  

--- Page 238 ---
238 
 
 So let's go back to the 10-year and 30-year note(as shown in the screenshot below): 
 
Now we’re going to look at the rally higher on the 10-year(from H1 to H2),that was 
not seen on the 30-year(from H3 to H4). So we know that there’s going to be an accelerated 
rally on the dollar index the ﬁrst week on November obviously post US elec Ɵons. 
Let’s go back to our dollar index chart(shown in the screenshot below): 
 
Looking at the month of November, it can be seen we made a lower low(at point 2) so that 
whole overnight ﬁasco with the sell oﬀ on the dollar in the dow jones was all ﬂuﬀ.It was all 
manipula Ɵon.This is because we see that lower low here in the dollar but we did not see it in 
higher highs seen in the 10-year and 30-year futures on the debt instruments.  
This movement aﬀects all dollar paired currencies so knowing this makes catching  your bias 
easy. UnƟl next Ɵme, I wish you good luck and good trading.   
