

--- PAGE 130 ---

130 
 
Month 2: 
Video 8: Market Maker Trap False Breakouts 
 
 
Okay folks, welcome back. This is the eighth and ﬁnal teaching for the second month 
of the ICT mentorship; this is month October. We're dealing speciﬁcally with market maker 
traps of false breakouts. And we'll talk about speciﬁcally in this teaching one side of the 
marketplace just for the sake of saving Ɵme; everything that we show you will be just a 
reverse of everything that's been shown. 
So false breakout above price consolidaƟon: this condiƟon generally manifests in 
primary bearish markets; in other words, if the market's in a downtrend or for presently 
trading lower or expected to trade lower, a false breakout above the consolidaƟons is 
reasonably expected. And generally what you see manifest itself at some measure of 
equilibrium in price, the market will move into a trading range. 
Neophyte traders or breakout traders will bracket the trading range in price with 
orders. That means they're going to have buy stops to break out on a buy above the old 
highs, or sell stops below the old lows to sell short a break below the old lows. In other 
words, they're trying to capture a trend, and they're going to put a buy order above the 
marketplace and a seller below the marketplace because they absolutely have no idea 
what's going on, or breakout traders they just want to bracket the marketplace like long-
term trend followers. They don't mind taking a lot of losses with the hopes of eventually 
catching a large trade. But market makers will typically send price above the range to 
neutralize buy stops; so they're going to focus primarily on one side of the marketplace. And 
again, assuming that the market is primarily bearish, that's what the market makers MO is 
going to be; okay, their playbook is to run the buy stops above the marketplace. 
Now, false breakout below price consolidaƟons is obviously the opposite. This 
condiƟon generally manifests itself primarily in bullish markets, and at some measure of 
equilibrium in price, the market will move into a trading range. Neophyte traders and or 


--- PAGE 131 ---

131 
 
breakout traders again will bracket the trading range in price with orders, again looking to 
focus on buying on a breakout or selling short on the breakout that you're not privy or 
astute enough to know what direcƟon. They just simply want to react to whatever the 
market gives them in terms of breaking out above or below. But the market makers will 
typically send price below the range to neutralize the sell stops. 
 
 
So graphically, what I'll show you here(in the screenshot above) is a breakout trader 
or a neophyte trader's perspecƟve on a market that goes into a trading range. Above the old 
high or recent high, they will have buy stops for long breakout traders, and anyone that 
would be short, obviously, their buy stop would be resƟng above that high. And below the 
lows, there would be sell stops for long traders and sell stops for short breakout traders. In 
other words, they want to capture a move that would hopefully conƟnue going for a long 
period of Ɵme lower. They would like to get short on weakness, and obviously, bulls would 
like to be—when their breakout traders—they want to be buying on strength. They think by 
breaking out above an old high, their buy stop would trip them into a long posiƟon, and 
their belief is that they're going to hopefully capture a long-term trend up. 
 


--- PAGE 132 ---

132 
 
 
(from the screenshot above)Now, from a market maker's perspecƟve, we look below 
the marketplace when we have lows in the form of sell stops. Now, I'm going to focus 
primarily on a buying environment; okay, focusing on you in the market is underlyingly 
bullish. Everything that I show you here would just be reversed for when the market's 
bearish, okay, just to save Ɵme. When the market breaks below the consolidaƟon, those sell 
stops are used to pair long orders. Now who's buying those sell stops? It's smart money. But 
what types of orders rest above here? If we know below the marketplace itself stops, what's 
resƟng above the highs? Buy stops. So naturally, as the market moves away from those sell 
stops being ran out below the consolidaƟon, they're going to expand price; think of IPDA 
now. They're going to expand the price up to the liquidity above the old high, so those buy 
stops are going to be used to pair long selling; in other words, they're going to scale out their 
long posiƟons or take some proﬁts. 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 133 ---

133 
 
 
Eventually, the market will go into another area of consolidaƟon or another trading 
range. The market drops below that trading range to take out the cell stops below 
consolidaƟon. Now, as soon as this happens, the thought process should internally be going 
on inside your mind with, 'Okay, they've already shown a willingness to take the sell stops 
below 1.0855. Now they've rallied price above the 109 big ﬁgure, we've retraced a liƩle bit.' 
Okay, so if they are taking the market below this short-term consolidaƟon, they're probably 
going to run the price higher. So, where would those objecƟves be? What's resƟng above 
that old high? Buy stops. So, aŌer taking the market below a consolidaƟon and our 
understanding, our expectaƟons is the market is bullish, they're taking the market below the 
consolidaƟons to run sell stops out. The only reason why they're going to want to do that is 
to absorb those sell stops to be counterparƟes for their longs. When they are long, when 
smart money is long, how do they look to exit their posiƟons and book a proﬁt or hedge? 
They have to get out in a place where there's willing parƟcipants to buy. Buyers are always 
above the highs either in the form of a buying breakout or buy stops on short posiƟons. 
That's where the liquidity is. Remember that market paradigm shiŌ that's been spoke about 
in this mentorship? Well, we're talking about it here again just using in terms where you can 
see how it's applicable in price. Price runs above that old high, and now we have two areas 
at which the market makers have booked long posiƟons. So, now they're pricing in a buy 
model. So as the market moves higher, they're going to liquidate some of their posiƟons to 
hedge and they're also going to liquidate posiƟons that those traders on the bank level are 
actually speculaƟng for proﬁt. So, this is how they actually take their trades and put them on 
and how they scale them oﬀ where they're placing their entries and where they're placing 
their limit orders to get out with a proﬁt. 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 134 ---

134 
 
But what's over here(where the quesƟon mark is)? What rests above that? Remember I 
showed you in the ﬁrst month of this mentorship in September speciﬁc things to look for. 
Clean highs and clean lows. Well, there's an area right over here that clean highs above from 
where we're showing right now. AŌer that 1.0915 level’s been hit, there really isn't much in 
way of liquidity voids or pools that would be much of interest except for those stops right 
above those equal highs. As you can see, price expands. I think now in the interbank price 
delivery algorithm, it's going to expand up and it's going to seek liquidity; that's what we see 
here. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 135 ---

135 
 
 
 
what we see here, then what happens? price invariably will go back into a 
consolidaƟon. now, what's the underlying condiƟon of the marketplace? it's bullish. why? 
because they keep taking price below and then rejecƟng that, absorbing the sell stops and 
expanding price higher. is there any reason to suspect that price could go higher? look at the 
price acƟon you see here. you see anything that jumps oﬀ at you? if it doesn't, we'll come to 
it as we move forward in this example, but we have a consolidaƟon in here. our reasonable 
expectaƟon would be to see price seek the sell stops below the consolidaƟon. price does in 
fact go below the consolidaƟon. what's above this old high? Liquidity. Now do we always 
look at the old high or what do we look for? Do we consider the wicks? We can, but 
primarily all the volume is seen in what, the wicks or the bodies? The bodies of the candles. 
So the body of the candles has the most volume so the liquidity is going to rest above it. So if 
they took the stops out below the 1.0895, they're going to look to run price higher in the 
form of 1.0940 or higher. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 136 ---

136 
 
 
But iniƟally we had that short term consolidaƟon the buy stops resƟng above that they could 
scale oﬀ a posiƟon right there, and the next objecƟve would be 1.0940. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 137 ---

137 
 
 
As you can see 1.0940 is swept, moving just above the bodies of the candles. Note the way 
that the orders are stacking higher each Ɵme; when they buy, they're buying a liƩle bit 
higher each Ɵme and they're working their orders in and sƟll oﬀering opportuniƟes to scale 
oﬀ and proﬁt. So the hedgers can work this model, the speculators at the bank level can 
work this model, and they're also providing liquidity for those individuals that want sell stops 
to be acƟvated if the market goes down to those posiƟons and those individuals that want 
buy stops above the old highs. They're happy because their liquidity is being provided as 
well, so think, remember that market eﬃciency paradigm. You have to think like a market 
maker. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 138 ---

138 
 
 
 
 
 
Now we have a larger trading range. Now I've kept that area which old buying was done at 
108.95, but now we've moved into a larger range. Nothing's changed here; the model is sƟll 
bullish. So we see market acƟon trade below that consolidaƟon; it trades down into 1.0885. 
So with that movement down into that level, where is the liquidity at? Above the old high at 
1.0945 or so. That's what you have up here. So what is it speciﬁcally? Buy stops. So we have 
willing buyers that are waiƟng up there for price once it gets there. They're buying—smart 
money's buying at 1.0890 or 1.0885 in that area—and they know that there's going to be 
willing parƟcipants to be buying it from them when they want to sell it for a proﬁt at 1.0945 
to 1.0950. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 139 ---

139 
 
1.0945 to 1.0950 is hit so the buy stops are used to pair long exits. So now we look what we 
have here. We have a wonderful example of how using consolidaƟons with the expectaƟon 
of viewing the market with that market eﬃciency paradigm I spoke about where we think 
like a liquidity provider, we can sƟll speculate, we can sƟll hedge, we can sƟll make a proﬁt 
using the same model. It answers all of the problems as it relates to trading, but speciﬁcally 
it oﬀers the answer to liquidity providing. Buy stops are acƟvated and they're actually given 
the ability to be eﬀecƟve and sell stops are the same way. So what the market makers do, we 
can vilify them, we can say all those rascals, they did this to me, they did that to me. Okay, 
but what they're doing is their job, they're providing liquidity. The absence or lack of 
understanding that traders have, they aƩribute that as these those guys, they did it to me, 
they usually misappropriate that to their broker. But what it is is the market maker is 
providing liquidity and if you understand how the market seeks liquidity, that's the number 
one driver in price acƟon. The market will always seek liquidity and where is the most recent 
area of liquidity that's been untapped with the least of resistance geƫng to it? And that will 
give you the direcƟonal bias when you're a trader. But when you see markets go into 
consolidaƟon and you have an underlying direcƟonal premise or you arrive at one based on 
studying the market like this, you can quickly ascertain trade setups and signals will jump oﬀ 
the chart at you by way of looking at like this. Again, we have to look at price with that 
market eﬃciency paradigm. We do not look at it as give me a buy and a sell. Okay, think like 
the market maker. If you had complete control of price, where would you drive price at to 
allow other traders to get in and at least facilitate their trades, at least whether they're right 
or wrong, that's not the problem here. Where's the buyers and where's the sellers at? And if 
we look at the market in this scope, in this perspecƟve, we'll know that we'll always have 
buyers above old highs and we'll always have sellers below old lows. So if we know that 
that's where liquidity rests, all we have to do is discern whether or not does the market want 
to seek the buyers or does it want to seek the sellers? And the way you get that indicaƟon is 
by studying when they go into consolidaƟon, what side of the market they reaching for and 
then where is the market going aŌer it happens. And here you can clearly see every Ɵme 
there's a consolidaƟon the market seeks the liquidity below the marketplace and once it 
absorbs it it quickly runs the other direcƟon. Why is that happening? Because the market 


--- PAGE 140 ---

140 
 
makers are facilitaƟng their long posiƟons and building a buy model in the price or in this 
asset. So we can expect to see every Ɵme the market goes below these consolidaƟons, these 
movements below it are always going to be viewed in our eyes as a false breakout. So the 
false breakout that would trip up traders otherwise or knock them out of proﬁtable posiƟons 
if they would have been remaining long, we can view the marketplace with the market 
eﬃciency paradigm, seeing it as a provider of liquidity, see it in just in the same scope or 
perspecƟve as a market maker does and then we're suddenly in line with the market maker. 
We're not beaƟng the market maker, we're not trying to outsmart the market maker, all 
we're trying to do is get in line with what their moƟve would be. What's their MO? How are 
they going to book the market for this parƟcular day or for this month or this week, okay? 
How are they going to do that? And by looking at the models that were shown here with 
looking at ranges and when they break below the ranges and we see willingness to rally aŌer 
that, it gives you your ﬁrst telltale clue. Every Ɵme the market goes into consolidaƟon, 
expect every drop down below an old area of consolidaƟon, expect that to be a false 
breakout and then anƟcipate accumulaƟon of long posiƟons in the market. Once they can 
accumulate their long posiƟons then they will reprice the market higher running for the buy 
stops above old highs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 141 ---

141 
 
 
But what else do you see here? I mean, if you're looking at this, what else, if you were to 
study this for a moment? And I'm going to ask you to pause the video, study this for a few 
minutes, and see if there's anything else that jumps oﬀ the chart at you. And don't be 
discouraged if, once I show you what it is, if it wasn't apparent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 142 ---

142 
 
 
 
This ﬁrst price swing from the ﬁrst iniƟal false breakout below the old lows and 
consolidaƟon, once that rallied up and we gave another area where we can buy again at that 
1.0875 level, that red area—if you will, I guess it's red—it's a measured move from that 
same buy and it gives you an approximaƟon over here where the algorithm will reach for to 
oﬀer price. And we see it reach up into that 1.0925 level from 1.0875, which is the measured 
move from the iniƟal low that it ran up and created that ﬁrst red box, and then that impulse 
price swing; the second leg in price higher is equal to that ﬁrst one. 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 143 ---

143 
 
 
Also the larger price swing from that ﬁrst iniƟal buy all the way up to the intermediate term 
high or the midpoint of the overall price swing, once we had that larger consolidaƟon and it 
went down and traded into 1.0885, when that happened, that same measured move from 
1.0850 up to 1.0945 or thereabouts, that same measured move from the the stop run at 
1.0885, that gives us a projected run up to that 1.0980 level and you can see that was 
handsomely hit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 144 ---

144 
 
And ulƟmately that 1.0990, as we spoke in real Ɵme at the Ɵme of this recording in the 
mentorship, which we spoke about that 1.0990 level being directly linked to the bearish 
order block on the daily chart. And all these things coalesce, they start to come together, 
they dovetail beauƟfully. But understanding each individual component will help us bridge 
that vast chasm, if you will, of what goes on past the right edge of your chart. You see a lot 
of Ɵmes where I'll talk about things and I'll give you scenarios of what I think is going to 
happen, but speciﬁc levels that I think is going to go and be hit. The reason I'm able to do 
that is because I'm looking at the market just like I'm showing you here. I'm looking at how 
the market maker is booking, how is the market maker manipulaƟng price, what side of the 
marketplace are they working on, where are they punishing those that are less informed? 
Okay, and if they're seeking one side of the marketplace over and over and over again, and 
they keep expanding price away from it, in this case it's been the sell stops being ran. Every 
Ɵme the sell stocks would be ran below a consolidaƟon, it runs higher and it goes through 
the buy stops. It just, that's the easiest way to see if we're really in a bullish market or bullish 
market proﬁle. It's not as easy as everyone says with the textbooks where you draw a 
trendline, it's sloping up and just every Ɵme it touches the trend line you buy. Now, you got 
to look at where the orders are going to be residing, and against back to that market 
eﬃciency paradigm, by having that model in in focus when you look at price. And when you 
see market consolidaƟons, when it breaks below that and you start seeing the market trade 
higher, every Ɵme the market goes in consolidaƟon, they're priming the marketplace to 
allow sell stops to below build up below those consolidaƟons. And obviously, what we 
shown here was just for a buy side. If everything was reversed and we were seeing 
consolidaƟons in the market, rally up taking the buy stops out and then quickly running 
lower and then moving into a new consolidaƟon, and then market running higher, running 
the buy stops and acceleraƟng going lower again, everything would just reverse itself in 
terms of everything we've explained here. So I hope this has been insighƞul to you. I look 
forward to our third month in the mentorship, so get your notebooks ready because there's 
going to be a lot more informaƟon by way of price acƟon, and we're going to be focusing in 
on detailed concepts that has been shown in the free mentorship, free members area on my 
website and on the videos. But all the gaps that I leŌ in that free area of teaching I'm gonna 


--- PAGE 145 ---

145 
 
I'm gonna ﬁll that in as we go forward. So with that guys, I wish you good luck and good 
trading. 
 
 
