--- PAGE 2 ---
2  It is the algorithm that controls market movement. It works with a set of rules just like any computer program.   There is going to be Ɵmes where the market goes sideways(same as consolidaƟon). When this happens, the market will be looking to do an expansion. All markets start from a consolidaƟon and move into an expansion(that’s an impulse price swing). AŌer that impulse swing,it either goes to a consolidaƟon again or it goes to a retracement. When a retracement happens,it goes back down into another level of expansion or aŌer expansion, it can go to a reversal paƩern, aŌer the reversal paƩern, it will see another retracement then back to potenƟally consolidaƟon. These four condiƟons interchange throughout the marketplace. You are only going to get one of these four condiƟons. You just need to know where the market is at right now, where it is likely to go and where it came from. Throughout the course, you are going to learn a lot about where the market is going next and that’s going to ﬁll in a lot of gaps.   The main thing, the consolidaƟon begins with everything. All the moves that take place in the marketplace start with a measure of consolidaƟon. That’s where the market builds orders. The market maker keeps market in a Ɵght range or deﬁned range unƟl there is enough money on both parts of the upper and lower ends of the range is being deﬁned by the consolidaƟon. Whichever one has the highest amount of money to be absorbed, that’s the direcƟon it is going to move in. We don’t always know what that is but we wait for the expansion, when the expansion occurs, that’s when we get the clue as to what the market is most likely going to be doing and wait for a retracement or another consolidaƟon or reversal.We always wait for the ﬁrst expansion which gives us all the insights that we need to make a decision. SomeƟmes it may expand so far that we can’t do anything with it that we have to wait for the 

--- PAGE 3 ---
3  retracement or the next consolidaƟon. There is nothing wrong with that, it is all normal,you are not going to catch every move. The main thing is understanding these four individual characterisƟcs to a trade setup because price is delivered by one of these four condiƟons. It can’t be any other way.   What is Expansion? Expansion is when price moves quickly from a level of equilibrium. Expansion couples directly with the tool of an order block.  The Importance of Expansion; When price leaves a level quickly, this indicates a willingness on the part of the market makers to reveal their intended repricing model. Now what does that mean? Well,  if we are in a consolidaƟon or point of equilibrium, if price wants to move up quickly, that will give us an indicaƟon of looking for a bullish orderblock, we don’t want to chase price, we want to wait for price to come back down into the orderblock. Where is that going to occur? Well, what do we look for in price? The order block that the market makers leave near or at equilibrium price point.   As you can see here, there’s a consolidaƟon in the blue shaded area. This is a very clear deﬁned consolidaƟon. It’s got a clear discernable high and low and the equilibrium price point is directly in the middle of the high and the low end of that range. You can simply take the Fibonacci tool , lay the ﬁb on the high and the low in the general consolidaƟon to ﬁnd that midpoint. The market will eventually move outside of the consolidaƟon. You can see that impulse move in the yellow-like shaded box. It moves away from the equilibrium price point and all we have to do is go back 

--- PAGE 4 ---
4  to the down candle right before that up move. That down candle(black candle) is the bullish order block. When the price comes back down into that and hits it that’s where we would be buying. Obviously you can see it hits that level and expands to the up side. What is Retracement? Retracement is when price moves back inside the recently created price range.  The Importance of Retracement: When price returns inside a recent price range, this indicates a willingness on the part of the market makers to reprice to levels not eﬃciently traded for fair value.  When we are thinking retracement, the go to is for ICT tools we are looking for liquidity gaps and liquidity voids. When we look for price when we see run ups real quick and run downs in price in other words real quick rallies up or real quick rallies down in price many Ɵmes that range that’s created will want to come back in and close that in. Find an example below:     This is an example of a retracement. As you can see here the orange shaded area we have a real quick sudden movement away from a price level and that quick sudden movement creates what we call as a liquidity void. What we’ll do is we’ll wait as a trader, we wont chase price, we will  wait and say okay there’s going to be either an indicaƟon that get long and try to ﬁll in that range or we can wait for the come all the way back to it and ﬁll in the liquidity void. Once it hits it then it will probably resume going lower and that’s what we’re looking for in terms of liquidity void.   

--- PAGE 5 ---
5    What is Reversal?  Reversal is when price moves the opposite direcƟon the current direcƟon has taken in. So if we are looking for reversals, we are directly coupling that with an ICT tool of liquidity pools.  The Importance of Reversal: When the price reverses direcƟon, it indicates the market makers have ran level of stops and a signiﬁcant move should unfold in the new direcƟon.  What to look for in price: The liquidity pools just above an old price high and just below an old price low.   The screenshot above shows examples of reversals,every ‘x’ indicates where stops would be and the market goes just above those levels and rejects and goes the other way or goes just below those levels where there’s and ‘x’ and rejects and goes the other way. Look how many Ɵmes there’s so many opportuniƟes just on this one chart.  What is ConsolidaƟon?   ConsolidaƟon is when price moves inside a clear trading range and shows no willingness to move signiﬁcantly higher or lower.  

--- PAGE 6 ---
6  The Importance of ConsolidaƟon: When price consolidates, it indicates the market makers are allowing orders to build on both sides of the market. Expect a new Expansion near term.  What we look for in price: We are waiƟng for the impulse move or impulse swing in price away from the equilibrium price level that is found exactly in the halfway point of the consolidaƟon range.      We see here where we’ve idenƟﬁed a range deﬁned speciﬁcally by the bodies of the candles not the wicks as you can see, price moves out in an expansive manner and then comes back to the equilibrium price point and then to the upside.By having an understanding of these speciﬁc characterisƟcs and elements of trading a setup you’ll give yourself framework to ﬁrst learn how to pracƟce and study price acƟon and eventually work towards understanding consistent setup discovery.    

--- PAGE 7 ---
7  Month 1, Video 2: How Market Makers CondiƟon the Market  This is the second teaching for month 1, the image above is the market eﬃciency paradigm and what this generally is depicƟng is , we as new traders are collecƟvely  part of the larger circle of uninformed money and whether we acknowledge it or not, there is a smart money group of traders out there. When we as new traders look as the market as new traders, we may or may not have the understanding that there is a smart money enƟty out there and we as the larger populace of retail minded trading, we think because of our sheer vastness we are the driver of this apparatus that’s called the marketplace and we tend to think of ourselves as the drive axle of what makes the markets go up and down and that’s the facade of supply and demand, that’s the facade of trendlines driving price when it touches it, that’s the facade of moving averages, crossovers causing price go up and down,that’s the facade that’s perpetuated and we are led to believe that that’s exactly what takes place either in books or in seminars or in webinars or from gurus.   The smart money consists of banks and the uninformed money consists of everybody in retail account.  Uninformed money think that the sheer vastness and the size of them is much more controlling in terms of where price is going to be driven higher or lower because of the buying and selling pressure that’s equated to their mere involvement in price and that’s a facade.  Fact is, the small liƩle group of traders which form the smart money are the ones that inﬂuence the enƟre mechanism that we call the markets. This small group of traders is actually the drive shaŌ. It is the actual motor spinning the whole price higher or lower and not the big circle of uninformed money. Market is not eﬃcient for uninformed money but it is eﬃcient for smart money.  The banks drive price whether you want to accept it or not, that’s what’s going on and the sooner you get to that understanding and expectaƟon of what it is that’s going on in price, it’s not for your well-being, it’s for the bank’s well-being. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
10  for the low). There’s a range expansion, then it goes into the reversal, that’s classic London open scenario where it shoots down, runs the stops and then expands again. There is another range expansion 5:00 in the morning new York Ɵme. Between 5:00 in the morning to 8:00 in the morning in that Ɵme window,the market will go back into consolidaƟon, then it’ll have a retracement 8:00AM and 8:30AM new York Ɵme. Then it’ll have either a reversal in new York session or another expansion move. The range will expand and make rest of the day going up into 10:00 or 11:00 in the morning new York Ɵme where it’ll have a reversal again, that’s the London close, then the market will go into consolidaƟon ending true day at 19001 Forex LTDs plaƞorm.   So we can see the interbank price delivery algorithm on a daily basis by studying these events and seeing over a period of Ɵme you’ll know what is most likely to happen. Now let’s look at it a liƩle bit further .     If we are looking at price delivery and this is the model that comes by way of my ICT’s understanding  of having interbank feeds price to everyone. If we’re focusing on delivery of price, we have to understand that it all starts with a consolidaƟon. Nothing can happen unƟl consolidaƟon. ConsolidaƟon is when the market’s quiet. It is important because that’s when orders are building up in the marketplace. The market makers will allow orders to build up above and below the range . The next stage is always expansion. It’s not consolidaƟon to retracement, it can’t retrace if it hasn’t moved anywhere. It can’t go from consolidaƟon to reversal because it has to come out of the consolidaƟon. So when you see a consolidaƟon or holding paƩern,you got to think the next leg in price is going to be an explosive move or an impulse leg or an Impulse price swing. You need to see movement. By determining what that movement is in what direcƟon is relaƟve to the condiƟons you’re trading in. Once we are in the expansion stage, then you have a choice. It can retrace and come back to the orderblock it just leŌ behind and recapitalize that and then make another leg up or down relaƟve to the 

--- PAGE 29 ---
29 
 
Month 1: 
Video 6: Fair ValuaƟon: 
We will speciﬁcally be dealing with fair valuaƟon in this lesson.Fair valuaƟon comes in the 
form of two perspecƟves. 
1. Fair value in regards to equal distance of a higher low(same as equilibrium) 
2.  Fair value for the perspecƟve on valuaƟon in regards to market makers 
Both will be combined to give the perspecƟve that we must have when we look at price. 
  
--- PAGE 30 ---
30   This is actually a chart mapped out in advance talking about lot of these very speciﬁc things. We called Australian dollar higher from point 1 to point 2 based on the things we are going to cover in this video. What led to these ideas behind ICT giving the upside objecƟve? First, you have to understand that there’s is a lot of overlap from what we just covered in the previous two secƟons that being equilibrium to discount and equilibrium to premium. Obviously if you want to be buying, you want to be looking at a discount market, that means trading in a lower third of the current trading range that the market has presently or currently created in its most recent impulse leg or impulse price swing.  The sells are best taken in the most current trading range or impulse price swing upper third porƟon of that range, that’s a premium market at. When the market returns to an area of fair value, that is a fair value for the market maker to either sell or buy. In this case, we are going to cover both concepts in regards to equilibrium and the fair valuaƟon for market maker parƟcipaƟon in price acƟon.   

--- PAGE 31 ---
31  The market broke down from the high at point 3, it forms a liquidity void as indicated. The area marked in the orange-like color is what we call a liquidity void where the market makes a sudden movement lower and it’s large ranges with very liƩle wicks and the movement is very quick.That is a void. Price spent very liƩle Ɵme trading at these price levels and it was in a hurry to get down to point 4 where it started trading eﬃciently back and forth from both sides of the candle and ulƟmately having a retracement from point 5 to point 6. For the range within the liquidity void, as soon as we see pockets of price acƟon where there’s sudden movement lower just like we saw a sudden quick movement point 3 to point 0,the up candle prior to the down swing as labelled above is where we start watching and measuring fair value. And the down candle with ‘0’ wriƩen below it has the very next candle to be an up candle so we start looking at the range between that up candle and the up candle prior to the quick movement from point 3 to point 0 as a fair value gap.  This is important because there was no up movement or up candle between the low of the up candle prior to swing 3 to 0 and the one prior to swing 0 to 4. It was all just straight down movement so nothing ﬁlled in the area in between them and was basically leŌ open. Basically it’s like a gap.  Same thing happens between the up candle prior to swing 0 to 4 and the up candle aroung point 4. That area too is a fair value and the market would like to come back to that and close all of it. In other words, there is going to be up later on, it won’t happen immediately always, someƟmes it takes a liƩle bit of Ɵme. SomeƟmes depending on the Ɵmeframe you are looking at it may take a great deal of Ɵme but when price starts to move higher,we know that it will try and trade into the range and ﬁll it a later Ɵme. That is where market makers view fair value. Now, equilibrium or fair value in regards to equal distant range between high and low of a deﬁned high and low range. That being, if we have the low at point 7 and the high at point 8,if we deﬁne that we the ﬁb:  So we have equilibrium right there, that’s 50% of the range between point 7 and point 8,look how the bodies of the candles stay above that but we have a lot of work around that equilibrium price point.That in itself is signiﬁcant because it’s showing you the market ran through a short term which is at point 9. Once it ran through it, it came back down right back to the middle of the range or fair value which is equilibrium. At this moment, price 

--- PAGE 32 ---
32 
 
could stay in consolidaƟon at the equilibrium for a period of Ɵme of any length. We don’t 
know how long price is going to stay in a consolidaƟon but at equilibrium,you need to refer 
to where the most recent price swing took place. In other words, we are at equilibrium at 
point 1 or at fair value. The market can go either at this price level. The easiest way to 
determine where its most probable direcƟon is is where market structure broke recently.Did 
it break at swing high or swing low most recently? Well there is no swing low in here of any 
signiﬁcance but there is a swing high up here at point 9 that is being broken. So we made the 
low at point 10 and price ran through point 9 clearing up the high there and comes back to 
equilibrium. 
 
Please noƟce that we are in the lower porƟon of the range deﬁned by the higher at point 3 
and the low at point 7. So we are in a real low area where it would be deemed over sold. So 
we have a range concept blending with the fact that we’re moving back in the middle of a 
smaller consolidated trading range(between point 7 and 10) with a market structure break 
of the recent highs around point 9. Those highs were broken and price came back to 
equilibrium. So the highest probability in terms of direcƟon is going to be going long. The 
down candle right before the move up the short term high is the bullish orderblock so price 
comes back down and hits it at the same Ɵme it’s hiƫ ng at equilibrium and it’s deemed fair 
value. Fair value because the market traded back down into an area where it wants to be 
bought again and where it should be expected to see buying pressure come in. We don’t 
want to be buying at point 8 since that would mean buying at premium. 
So we would be blending a couple of things when looking at high probability setups. We are 
at equilibrium. It’s a fair valuaƟon because we are in the lower end of the range between 
points 3 and 7 and we have open price acƟon in the liquidity void labelled above,so the 
market will want to go up there and close that it. It doesn’t have to go all the way up to the 
low of the candle prior to the void which is a bearish order block. 
All this is needed to give us a direcƟonal bias. We have a swing high at point 6 and we know 
what is going to be resƟng above that(buy stops). We know that there is a strong likelihood 
that because we’re in the low end of the total range which is point 3 to point 7(the parent 
price swing), we created a short term low at point 10 that was higher. We broke through a 
swing high,came back down into equilibrium. We are in for longs.  The market makers can 
build a net long book at this price level. Now, if they are going to do that, they are going to 
look for a fair value above the marketplace where they can sell their posiƟons for them. Up 
there at point 2,if traders are buying this chasing price,are they buying at fair value? NO, 
they are buying at premium.Remember we just discussed in regards to equilibrium to 
premium. For the parent range(from point 3 to point 7), once we are above 50% level, we 
can’t consider any buying acƟvity. At point 2, we are in premium, the upper porƟon of the 
opƟmal trade entry(that’s the 79% retracement level speciﬁcally) 
--- PAGE 34 ---
34   So from here, you could sƟll see that price is in deep discount at point 1,so fair valuaƟon for for the market makers to build a book long would be so many overlapping factors there. They could be building long posiƟons or accumulaƟng long posiƟons at point 1 looking for liquidity above the marketplace, that means where above these highs at point 6 that iniƟally it just sold oﬀ of, then we have the buy stops above point 6. So the market runs through point 8 taking those stops over there and runs through the short term high at point 6 and consolidates aŌerwards.Now if it is a turtle soup and it wants to go lower aŌer blowing out buy stops,it should go lower quickly. But this setup doesn’t do that, it’s staying in a sideways consolidaƟon. This means it’s building equilibrium. So equilibrium is building again in that small liƩle range so we deﬁne the high and low of the equilibrium using the Fibonacci as shown below:  Look how much price acƟon spends around the middle point at equilibrium price point.So it is hanging around fair value. We had one spike move lower(the spike with the arrow poinƟng to it), it doesn’t break the range and it expands to the upside.  

--- PAGE 35 ---
35  Once it expands to the upside, it starts ﬁlling in the orange-like shaded liquidity void which is another area of fair value,the market is fair to those long posiƟons for the market maker that have already accumulated long posiƟons on.  The shaded area for the liquidity void has been extended and the whole of that area is a good place for them to sell the longs they have started accumulaƟng from point 1. Look how much Ɵme they whip back and forth in that range.All the down wicks indicate selling of longs they accumulated at points 1, 7 and 10. Once the void is ﬁlled in completely, it is no longer an area of interest. So now, why would we sƟll look for higher prices?Because they went long at point 1,so if they are going to look to sell their posiƟon, where would they look to sell their posiƟons,discount or premium? Obviously premium. It’s fair value to the market maker to liquidate their posiƟons at the small liƩle pockets between the last bullish candle prior to the quick down movement from point 3 and the bullish candle prior to the orange-like shaded liquidity void.  When price moves in deﬁned trading ranges, there’s going to be equilibrium,equilibrium is in itself fair value. That means means the market makers are holding in a consolidaƟon. When that consolidaƟon gives way,the strongest move out of that consolidaƟon on a long on a high Ɵmeframe chart will give you a great deal of prognosƟcaƟon for direcƟonal bias.  When looking at price acƟon, there a couple of things you need to keep in consideraƟon: The total range you are trading in,the equilibrium price point relaƟve to the most recent trading range and low and we deﬁned several of them here  We have mulƟple things lining up with the fact that for fair value sake,the market is in deep discount at point 1 and most likely going to trade higher and we have reference points we can look for where the market makers should aim. The easiest way to understand insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow from the beginning starƟng point of it all is understanding that the markets move buy stops to sell stops and sell stops to buy stops and it moves from fair value to discount to discount to premium to premium to fair value 

--- PAGE 36 ---
36 
 
and it moves back and forth between these three reference points. All these combined 
together gives a clues as to what we’re seeing in terms of the market makers acƟon. 
Are they accumulaƟng? Are they manipulaƟng? Are they distribuƟng? All these factors we’re 
going to be bringing those closely knit ideas into a more easily understood premise. When 
we look at price, we will be able to see these things unfolding in advance and you’ll be able 
to see what should take and it’s very encouraging to see your study and these individual 
components start to ﬂesh out and have a greater about price acƟon. 
In closing, fair value in discount is fair value for market maker buying, fair value in premium 
is fair value for market maker selling. 
Discount below equilibrium in the lower end of the range is a discount market and that’s an 
area at which the market makers can buy. 
Price is not random. It’s very speciﬁc of where it wants to go and why it wants to get there 
and that’s what we’re learning in this mentorship.  
Think in terms of fair value for the market maker,if they are going to go higher,where’s a fair 
value for them to exit their longs?  It’s a fair value for them to do so, they do not want to 
liquidate their longs at a discount or on retracements going lower .  
You look for expansions on the upside, when price expands,they should be reaching into an 
area of fair value  for price to be liquidaƟng smart money longs. That’s the only reason why 
markets go up. That’s the only reason why price is allowed to be delivered at higher prices. 
The market makers, the banks own their books that are net long and it’s in their interest that 
they price higher. It doesn’t maƩer how many of us buy, the price is going to be set by the 
bank and they are doing things to line their own pockets and not yours so it takes a 
perspecƟve shiŌ and it gets back to the market eﬃciency paradigm that you have to view 
things from the smart money’s perspecƟve.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
--- PAGE 37 ---
37  Month 1:  Video 7: Liquidity Runs: Liquidity refers to the degree to which a market (asset or security) can be quickly bought or sold in the market without aﬀecƟng the asset’s price. When we look at price, it doesn’t maƩer what Ɵmeframe you are looking at. Time is irrelevant for right now in this video. The speciﬁcs about price acƟon as it relates to liquidity. We as price acƟon traders,we are looking speciﬁcally for reference points where we can hone in on where there is a high probability of liquidity resƟng in the marketplace. Liquidity as it relates to ICT concepts, it relates to buy orders and sell orders. It’s as simple as that.   When we have a swing in the marketplace as seen at point 1(swing high),and the market trades lower, our understanding is there is someone that went short at point 1. This posiƟon will be net posiƟve or proﬁtable as the market moves lower . As the market turns around, if those posiƟons were sƟll held, their open proﬁts would be eroding and at point 2,they would be at a losing posiƟon. Our understanding is if there is a short posiƟon or traders that are bearish on the marketplace, if they have posiƟoned a proﬁtable trade at point 3 and moved lower,their stop loss order would be resƟng right above the high at point 1 or generally many Ɵmes just right at that high at point 1. The market tends to ﬁnd an interest in going back to where that large body of interest or what we call liquidity in the marketplace. It would be by liquidiƟes. As the market ﬁnd these lows down here at points 4 and 5, as the market rallies away, our understanding is there’s going to be buyers that have posiƟons that are net posiƟve or proﬁtable as it trades higher . At some point(point 2) when the market starts  to trade back down lower back into the area in which the buy orders would have originated from(buy orders originated from around points 4 and 5), their open proﬁts start eroding unƟl eventually, they would be at a net loss posiƟon. 

--- PAGE 38 ---
38  So when we look at price,the idea is we’re not looking for speciﬁc paƩerns for the sake of paƩerns, we’re looking at where exisƟng orders will reside. So essenƟally what you do is you’re targeƟng areas at which the market has already seen a willingness to go higher or lower, in this case we see a swing high(point 1) and the market moves lower. We view that as a smart money trader or as a market maker perspecƟve. We know that there’s going to be buy stop or buy liquidity above that high( i mean the high at point 1)  When we look at the lows at points 4 and 5, when the market moves away from these lows,we see that as sell liquidity or sell stop. IdenƟfying both on these posiƟons on both sides of the marketplace, we are going to learn a concept called open ﬂoat.  While that’s not going to be covered in this speciﬁc video,it’s important to understand that the beginning foundaƟons to understanding liquidity as it relates to buying and selling in the marketplace. Our ﬁrst fundamental understanding is, there’s going to be liquidity above old highs and below old lows. When we understand that, we can see that they will eventually target these same levels moving price just above the previous high knocking out the liquidity that would be resƟng just above those highs in the form of buy stops.  Below old lows, the market will seek liquidity for the sell side or the sell stops, taking those orders out.   Understanding this premise when we view price acƟon, it removes all the retail minded perspecƟve but heavily leaning on indicator based ideas. When we adopt these principles with study of price, it gives us the most truest and purest view of how price is delivered. We have no conﬁdence or direct relaƟonship relaƟonship to our direcƟonal bias on price relaƟve to anything except for price itself. If the market is moving from an old 

--- PAGE 45 ---
45  So when price goes back into the high at point 6,it becomes a low resistance liquidity run to see price come to take out this low at point 4. The fact that we keep the old low at point 0 in place(by the low at point 3 taking stops below it) and every low that forms has very liƩle resistance as each Ɵme it moves through, it’s like a hot knife through buƩer. Very liƩle resistance down every Ɵme a low is formed,price goes through those lows.  Once we idenƟfy where the market is interms of high resistance or low resistance liquidity, we can ﬁnd old lows to the leŌ side of the market that directly match those of the right side, they form approx. Equal lows and are be ran down by price to take stops, study the price chart above very well.  The same thing is seen when the market ﬁnds a low in the market: the market creates a smaller consolidaƟon at the circled area, makes it a long term low at point 1,rallies up to point 2, retraces to point 3. Basically there is a lot of price acƟon from 16th November up to the 27th November so the old low at point 1 is going to be defended. The fact that we have a retracement going lower each Ɵme, every Ɵme the market retraces, that’s going to be the form of a high resistance liquidity run.It’s going to ﬁnd very sƟﬀ resistance with violaƟng old lows. The old lows are going to be defended and you are going to see buying coming in the marketplace. Your focus is going to be primarily on the highs. Every short term high is going to have easy runs through them. That forms a low resistance liquidity run. The resistance levels are going to be very weak.The support or the lows are going to be very strong because the market is going to be capitalizing only on the buy side. Every Ɵme  the market retraces lower, that sets up new buying opportuniƟes to take up the short term highs or intermediate term highs above the marketplace because what’s going to be resƟng above those highs is buy stops and you want to be buying low and selling to willing buyers above the current market acƟon and that’s what the market makers do.Every Ɵme the market trades down,it’s just a new low resistance liquidity run to make a run above an old high and it makes it very easy to ﬁnd trades this way.  

