
--- Page 46 ---
46 
 
Month 1: 
Video 8: Impulse Price Swings and Market Protraction: 
In this lesson, we will be learning about impulse price swings and market protraction,very 
similar ideas but uniquely different. 
We will first consider impulse price swings. An impulse price swing will be something as 
shown below: 
 
 
Here we have an impulse swing down from point 1 to point 2, and we have another impulse 
price swing higher from point 2 to 3, and we have another impulse swing lower from point 3 
to point 4,and we have another impulse swing higher from point 4 to 5, followed by an 
impulse swing lower from point 5 to point 6, and a higher swing from point 6 to point 7,and 
we have another impulse swing lower from point 7 to point 8,followed by another impulse 
swing higher from point 8 to point 9, followed by an impulse swing lower to point 10, 
another impulse swing higher to point 11 and ultimately another impulse swing lower to 
point 12. 
When you look at price action, you need to be thinking in terms of impulse price swings 
because inside the impulse price swings it’s going to give you a lot of detail. There are 
smaller more specific impulse price swings that have a lot more influence over the 
marketplace in the form of a manipulative move or market making manipulation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 47 ---
47 
 
Let’s focus on protraction now: 
If you look at the market with the similar ideas that we just illustrated with every impulsive 
price swing and then we add to it time of day. When we do that, we will be able to look at 
time sensitive impulse price swings which is market protraction. Market protraction is time-
sensitive.It is an impulse price swing that is highly sensitive to a time of day. 
There are 3 primary protractionary market moves every 24 hours. The first one is raid at zero 
gmt. 
 
Each of the vertical lines is at zero gmt. At zero gmt, you will see little movements away or 
lower in other words up or down at that delineation in time. At point 1, you could see 
market trades down before moving higher. At point 2 too, it does same, it moves down 
before going higher. At point 3, it first trades higher before trading lower.At point 4 too, it 
trades higher before trading low and that’s all we’re going to look out for for that Asian 
session. ICT said he doesn’t believe Asia is that influential initially and the other market 
protractionary state is in London.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 48 ---
48 
 
Now, vertical lines delineating zero gmt has been removed and another ones put there 
delineating midnight new York time 
 
Initially right after midnight new York time on this day marked point 1, we had the 
market move higher to point 2. This market move here from point 1 to point 2 is a 
protractionary market phase where the market trades up initially at a specific time of day so 
there is an impulse price swing between points 1 and 2 but it’s designed to fake out the 
individuals that chase that initial move after midnight. 
The second impulsive price swing starts in New York, we delineate 7 O’clock in the 
morning(The vertical line through point 4)  and anticipate if the market has moved lower 
lower in London(it moved lower to point 3), we’re going to be looking for a retracement 
higher(to point 5), the impulsive price move higher is what we call market protraction. It’s 
designed and intended for manipulation only. It rallies up (to point 5) and moves down 
ultimately(to point 6). 
 
Market protraction is counter directional,in other words, if it goes higher,we think 
the opposite direction,it it goes lower, we think the opposite direction. When market 
protraction happens, market is going to seek to draw in participants on the wrong side of the 
marketplace or reach for liquidity.  It has to happen after 7 O’clock in the morning. 
 
The other one is in the London session obviously and it’s after 4 GMT on the forex ltd 
demo account.  
 
 
 
 

--- Page 49 ---
49 
 
Confluencing what we learnt today with what we have already learnt this month: 
When you measure your Fibonacci from point 2 to point 3, you would realize point 5 
is above equilibrium(it’s around the 62% mark), meaning the market is in premium and ideal 
for a sell 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Market taking sell stops below equal lows 
  
 
 

--- Page 50 ---
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The difference in determining impulse price swings and market protraction is the fact 
that there is a time element applied to the small impulse swing after midnight new York 
time, after 7am new York time,and 8pm new York time, there’s usually a protractionary 
market phase that enters the marketplace and it’s a small little impulse price swing that’s 
counter the major direction that you are going to see after that specific time of day. 
So for session trading and for session drills, you can use this concept to help you in 
context in your practicing and also build your anticipatory price skills. 
