--- PAGE 92 ---
92 
 
Month 2: 
Video 6: The Secrets To SelecƟng High Reward Setups
 
Okay folks, welcome to the sixth teaching of month two of the ICT mentorship. We're 
speciﬁcally dealing with the secrets to high reward trading setups. Now, some of you may 
have already went through my trading plan development series. It was a long video series, it 
has a lot of informaƟon, it was really aimed for those individuals that have never really had 
exposure to the marketplace, giving them ideas on what direcƟon to go and what to focus 
on primarily. And while it is a great deal of informaƟon for a neophyte, it is necessary to go 
through those things because it has to, well not it doesn't have to, but when you're ﬁrst 
starƟng out, it's important that you have a mentor or you have a framework or a foundaƟon 
to build upon to give your your trading career a direcƟon. One of the most recurring themes 
in my role as a mentor is, you know, where do I begin? What should I do ﬁrst? You know, 
where should I be focusing my aƩenƟon at now? What should I be studying? Okay. And 
while the trading plan development series is sƟll good, it's sƟll valuable in my opinion, um 
not because I made it, but because it's again it's useful. Some of you, majority of you 
actually are actually really exposed to my content and my material as it relates to trading, 
speciﬁcally to foreign exchange. But I think that if, if one were to look at what I actually do 
on a day-by-day basis, what is the procedure? What are the things that I do to elect a 
speciﬁc stance on the marketplace? What makes me bullish? What makes me bearish? Why 
do I focus on one currency pair over another? All those things are decisions and processes. 
And while we will have speciﬁcs in relaƟonship to how I arrive at individual speciﬁc views or, 
uh, decision points as relates to how everything ﬁts together on in my decision process, it's 
important that we start with kind of like a a micro version of the trading plan development 
series in this teaching. That's what this is. While it's not going to be comprehensive as the 
trading plan development series was, this one's going to be a liƩle bit more speciﬁc. It's 
going to be more salient to the things that I do as a speciﬁc forex trader. I don't look at all 
the things that the trading plan development series video course spoke about, um, they do 
occasionally come up in my thought processes, but they're not all required to come to a 
trade decision. Okay, so we're going to go through a lot of the things that I believe that, if 

--- PAGE 93 ---
93 
 
you've been exposed to at least all my free tutorials, uh we're gonna be able to get down to 
a liƩle bit more process and, uh, decision based parameters in this teaching. Now it's 
important also that we go into this with the proper mindset. Okay, I don't want anybody 
thinking we're going into trade signals. We're not talking about trading paƩerns. We're not 
talking about, uh, stop-loss placement or or trade management. None of those things are, 
uh, important here. This is the the last primer for us before we start going into the the 
speciﬁcs of breaking down individual decisions, um, each process which, as a collecƟve 
whole as we'll discuss in this teaching, will, you'll see that that's how the ICT mindset is. You 
know, what we do on a day-by-day basis, what frames our opinion about certain things, and 
when do we change those opinions, and when we move to the sideline. All those things 
come by way of process thinking. Okay, and it's important that you understand that while 
entry signals and, and stop placement and paƩerns and order blocks and overﬂow and all 
the ICT, you know, jargon and the things that get really, uh, exciƟng, there's got to be a liƩle 
bit of dry informaƟon, uh, presented to you and it's important. So I don't want you to look at 
this video and go through it and walk away with, well you know, this isn't really teaching me 
anything. It really is teaching you. It's going to teach you, number one, how to think in terms 
of foundaƟons because we have to understand where we're building on to elect a decision 
relaƟve to whether we're going to be a buyer or seller or where we're going to stay in on the 
sidelines. Okay, because that's the real secret to trading, understanding what makes the 
process arrive at a decision. Okay, you know what is the process? What you know, what are 
the components that help you arrive at whether you should be a trader, uh buying or selling 
or staying on the sidelines and what asset class should you be trading and what speciﬁc pair 
if we're going to be dealing with foreign exchange as we are in this teaching. All those things 
will be a liƩle bit more clear, a lot more clear I should say, by having the thought processes 
that I'm going to introduce here. Now, obviously, there has to be a speciﬁc order. Okay, 
there's got to be an hierarchy to what it is that we do as a trader, what makes our decisions. 
You know, incremental, what, what do we do ﬁrst, what do we focus on ﬁrst? And obviously, 
I've I've been a a strong supporter of the noƟon that every trader needs to have paƟence, 
obviously. And you know, aŌer paƟence then we have to understand obviously what deﬁnes 
trade environments. You know, are the environments conducive for trading right now? Uh 
that's a topic that obviously goes, um largely on, uh, taught by majority of everyone that's 
teaching and has courses or whatever they do in terms of, uh, teaching the populace. And I 
do a lot of work with that in this mentorship and it's going to be a lot more spread across the 
enƟre mentorship. So I don't really have one speciﬁc teaching that talks about when you 
shouldn't trade. There's going to be a lot of things that you'll come by experience and 
learning that deﬁne those environments. Okay. Uh the next stage is obviously to determine a 
trade parameter. You know, what makes your trading, um, you know, a buy or sell? You 
know, what gives you, um, those noƟons to even take acƟon? Obviously, it's not simply, you 
know, well it's been going up for last 60 minutes so I'm going to buy or it's going to be going 
lower because of an interest rate announcement. I believe that's going to happen. So 
therefore I'm going to you know trade on that. It has to be very deﬁned. Okay. It has to be 
speciﬁc. It has to be binary. You do this or you don't do this. Okay, uh do x or do y. Okay, it 
has to be a a very black or white decision process. If you don't have your trading plan or your 
perspecƟve or process, you know, in determining whether you want to be a trader buying or 
selling right now or staying on sidelines, it will create a huge vacuum where lots of 

--- PAGE 94 ---
94 
 
emoƟonal, psychological and impulsive trading will creep in. And if you don't have these 
binary thought processes and where you're speciﬁcally dealing with in terms of decision 
making, you won't have any structure and without structure, without having a reﬁned clear 
trading model, what deﬁnes your trading, what makes your trading model uniquely yours, 
you're going to struggle. And it doesn't maƩer who teaches you, doesn't maƩer what 
principle or discipline you trade with, it's going to be an impossible endeavor if you do not 
become highly organized. So you have to aŌer a long period of Ɵme spending in front of 
charts and and work with individuals and myself as a as a trader because I'm always a 
student, I'm always learning something about myself as a trader, uh not so much about the 
market anymore. And it does I don't mean to sound arrogant, but most of my learning 
comes by way of my individual experience as a trader, and you'll learn, uh that actually helps 
you reﬁne your your trade parameters. And next, obviously, you need to know what makes 
your executable criteria, what it is, what makes you be the buyer or the seller and you know 
having those those parameters deﬁned. It's not just simply, I'm bullish right now. Okay, well 
if you're bullish what would you do to be a buyer? And what would make that buying 
scenario, uh you know negated? What would what would change the the tone in the 
marketplace for you to either move to the sidelines or, if you have a stop-loss hit, do you sƟll 
consider that being a buying condiƟon? And these things have to be speciﬁc, they have to be 
highly reﬁned. It's got to be like a ﬂow chart format. It's goƩa, you have to go from one step 
to the next and if it's not like that, again, you're gonna be very emoƟonal. You're gonna be 
very psychologically, uh inﬂuenced by the things that you see in the price acƟon and worse 
by online media, forums, TwiƩer, Facebook, people talking to you and your at work and your 
friends that maybe you know there are traders. All those things are going to be inﬂuenƟal to 
you and it's going to be detrimental to your performance as a trader. So we don't care what 
anybody else's opinion is, we don't care about what uh their opinion of our trading model is. 
In fact, we're not really trying to share our trading model to anybody. It's a unique trading 
plan and trading model for for you. Okay. And you're going to deﬁne that, reﬁne it to 
yourself, and that's going to be your graduaƟon when you know exactly what's going to be 
framing your trading model. And you'll have a lot of help along the way through the 
remaining months of this mentorship, but they have to be deﬁned by you. I can't force you 
to be a day trader, I can't force you to be a short-term trader, I can't force you to be a swing 
trader. You'll know which one that is for you by the end of this mentorship. And then more 
importantly, you have to understand why the trade should pan out. Understand what makes 
the trade viable. Okay, it's not just simply I see a trading paƩern here or I'm, I believe I'm 
bullish or I believe I'm bearish in the marketplace. There has to be a real understanding of 
why that scenario should take place and largely this is going to come by experience. Okay, 
and obviously that experience comes by taking acƟon in a demo account, and when you do 
that, that experience should be logged and kept for future reference. That's the only way 
you're really going to learn. Obviously, if you just go into a demo account, you click on buy 
and sell and you're just waiƟng to see the outcome and you want to aƩribute the winning 
trades as you're a good trader and the losing trades, well that really didn't happen, so 
therefore it doesn't make a diﬀerence to me, that doesn't help you as a developing trader. 
So the real secrets to, um, ﬁnding high reward trade setups is, number one, you have to 
know what it is speciﬁcally you're looking for and where to ﬁnd that informaƟon. So before 
we get into all those things, I want you to understand that it's crucial to understand that 

--- PAGE 95 ---
95 
 
eﬃciency in trading comes by way of process oriented thinking and it doesn't come by way 
of reacƟonary or impulsive thinking, which also leads to rushing ahead and trade signals 
prematurely. I could tell you, if we were all going to sit over top my email box and look at 
some of the things that I got, and by way of feedback, um it's the reoccurring thing is, I want 
to see trades, I want to see entries, I want to see get me in and get me out type perspecƟve. 
And I understand that, I get that. Okay. But I can tell you, being from where you are right 
now and where I am now in my understanding as a trader, I can tell you that's not what you 
need to know right now. And it doesn't feel good to hear that. It feels like I'm leading you 
down the primrose lane. It feels like I'm just, you know, you know, deferring, you know, 
something that you think you need to have right now. And that's not true. What it is is you 
have to develop a process oriented thinking. And that means I can show you order blocks, 
you know, I can show you, uh breakers, I can show you insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow, uh returning 
back to a miƟgaƟon block. Okay, I can show you examples of that. But unƟl you understand 
the process behind why these things should be doing what they're going to do, it's going to 
be really of no help to you. It's going to feel like I'm demonstraƟng toys. It's going to feel like 
I'm, you know, showing you, well this is what I can do, and that's not what this is all about. 
It's to show you with an inƟmate, uh experience on a day by day basis, a weekly basis, a 
teaching tutorial basis, a theme generalized over the month. Okay, that builds on your total 
understanding. The folks that are struggling right now are the folks that are really trying to 
be reacƟonary or impulsively thinking about what they want to do right now, and that's the 
hardest thing for traders to do when they ﬁrst get involved with learning. They have this 
insaƟable desire they have to be trading right now. They want to get in, they want to take 
signals. Okay. And I spent the enƟre ﬁrst month, September, on a day-by-day basis showing 
you that there are a plethora of trading signals all the Ɵme. We were laser guided precision, 
there's no reason for you to be feeling rushed. October didn't change. Okay, the weight 
prices being delivered, none of these concepts fell out of fad. Okay, it sƟll works. But I 
needed to show you the ﬁrst month that there's nothing that's going to hinder your ability to 
ﬁnd signals because there's always a lot of them. The problem is going to be is you don't 
know what deﬁnes the setups for you as a trader and you're not going to have a process 
organ thinking that leads you to high reward trade setups. And it's it comes by experience, it 
comes by showing you conceptual ideas and a broad brush idea of breaking down what it is 
that we look for in the marketplace and where does that informaƟon reside. So it's real 
important before we get into this that this is important that you focus on the fact that what 
I'm showing you in this teaching while it doesn't give you technicals, it doesn't give you trade 
scenarios, it doesn't give you speciﬁc get in get out type things, I'm, I'm of the mindset that 
this is exactly what I needed to be told when I ﬁrst started as a trader, but no one was 
around to tell me these things. No one had the experience around me or I had the, uh, the 
avenue of reaching them like you have with me. You have a very inƟmate relaƟonship with 
me as a mentor because I'm spending a great deal Ɵme and I'm invesƟng a lot of my Ɵme by 
way of my experience, and it takes a lot of Ɵme to communicate that because we're talking 
about someone that's been doing this for two decades or more, and there's a lot of lessons I 
learned, and there's a lot of lessons that I resisted iniƟally. And some of those are the same 
things I'm warning those individuals that are feeling it right now, and you know who you are, 
because right now you're squirming, you're wanƟng to get on, get on with it, get on with it 
Michael. If you're feeling that, you're in that reacƟonary impulsive thinking. Okay, you need 

--- PAGE 96 ---
96 
 
to change that, suppress that. It's hard, I know it's hard, but you're not going to get to high 
reward trading scenarios. Okay, that you can ﬁnd very quickly in the marketplace, that you 
can ﬁnd consistently, eﬃciently. All those things are going to evade you because you're 
looking to do something right now. And professional traders are not in a rush to put money 
at work, they want to sit back and wait for a scenario that makes sense. So if, if we were all 
in a room and everyone had a chance to ask me something, I can tell you the number one 
reoccurring quesƟon, if we were all to to write it down on a piece of paper ahead of Ɵme, 
not just vocally say it, that way no one would basically repeat it, the, uh, the quesƟon would 
come by way of what makes me think this order block's gonna do what, or what makes me 
think that this level is gonna keep price from going higher? What, why do I think the Judas 
swing should go up aŌer midnight and then sell oﬀ? You know, what are all those things? 
And I understand why you're asking those quesƟons, and they're the same types of 
quesƟons that I had about the marketplace, but again I didn't have anybody to direct those 
quesƟons to. But it's important that you understand that there's no way I can actually 
answer that quesƟon to you now because we haven't gone through all the things that are 
necessary for me to adequately answer that. It would, it's almost like I'm creaƟng an 
addiƟonal language on top of what you've already arrived at by going through my free 
tutorials, and it, that's why I require 12 months with me because it's going to basically beat it 
in your brains by hearing it over and over again, speciﬁcally dealing with it, I'm going to trade 
by trade base as a daily, uh involvement, the the applicaƟon of it, and that's going to be you 
know the big takeaway. You're going to have experience, whereas if I just wrote a book or if I 
made some DVDs or CDs and you watched them, that would be it, it would be rather sƟlted. 
You would come away with, well that's cool, I can see how it works someƟmes, or I can see 
how it works in the past, but you don't have the inƟmate relaƟonship of siƫng down and 
going through the process. Okay, and explain why it should take place. We did some of that 
on a micro scale in September, but we need to go through a process of, outlining you know 
what the beginning foundaƟons are going to be because as we go into the fourth, ﬁŌh, and 
sixth month, they're going to be greatly, uh, focused on the the components that make up 
the trade templates. Okay, in other words, at the end of their mentorship you're actually 
going to get a ﬂow chart for when to be a buyer for swing trades, when to be a seller for 
swing trades, every speciﬁc decision point that goes through my head as a trader and what 
tools you use for each decision point and what's the response that you should have. 
Everything that we use, everything that I go through in my tools, uh for short-term trading 
the same way. What makes me a big buyer, what makes me be a seller, you know what 
makes the trade no longer good, where does my stop go, when do I move my stop? All those 
decisions that go through my pro, new, my mental process. Okay, because whatever 
everything I do is process oriented thinking, and it comes across as, well, you, you're just 
really good at this, and it's not that I'm good at it, it says I'm experienced at it and I know 
what decision I need to make right now, and someƟmes it's sit on the sidelines. And because 
I've done it so long that experience gives me reference to go to mentally and it only takes a 
few seconds someƟmes to arrive at where I think the market's going to go based on these 
processes. Now while it seems like it's a great deal of informaƟon and I'm job owning here, 
it's important that you really, really listen. So if you're, if this is one of those videos because 
there's no charts here, you need to sit down and listen. Don't be watching TV, don't you 

--- PAGE 97 ---
97 
 
know, don't be having your kids in the sidelines, okay, distracƟng you, you need to be paying 
aƩenƟon to this one because it's important.  
 
 
 
 
Okay, so let's take a look at how we go about this using the tools and all the 
processes along the lines of ICT related informaƟon. Obviously again we're not talking about 
the trade plan development series; this is like a micro scale version of all that stuﬀ, so we're 
going to go right into where the informaƟon is going to reside and what you're going to be 
looking for in these speciﬁc areas of study. 
Before we get into any high reward trading setup, we have to understand obviously 
there's going to be a big picture perspecƟve. And when I say big picture perspecƟve, it's 
primarily four areas of reference: it's going to be macro market analysis, it's going to be 
interest rate analysis, inter-market analysis, and seasonal inﬂuences. 
The next area of study is going to be for an intermediate perspecƟve: we'll be looking 
at top-down analysis, COT data (which is commitment of traders), and market senƟment. 
And for our short-term perspecƟve, we're going to be looking at correlaƟon analysis, 
Ɵme and price theory, and IPDA, which is the interbank price delivery algorithm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 98 ---
98 
 
Now looking closer at the big picture perspecƟve, we're going to take a look at what makes 
up our big picture perspecƟve. Obviously, there's four areas of study and again, my macro 
market analysis, interest rate analysis, inter market analysis, and seasonal inﬂuences. A liƩle 
bit of tongue twister there folks. When we look at the big picture perspecƟve, okay, while 
there's four areas of study, we're going to need to primarily focus on at least two of these 
that have to come into agreement. Okay? What I mean by that is our macro analysis, our 
interest rate analysis, our inter market analysis, and seasonal inﬂuences. All four of these do 
not have to agree, okay, but you do need to have two of these components to arrive at your 
big picture perspecƟve. Okay, in other words, our grand scheme of things, our big picture 
perspecƟve, okay, is going to be deﬁned by at least two of these areas of study. They have to 
come into agreement. It doesn't maƩer which of these four that you elect to subscribe to, 
but they have to come in an agreement. So let's take a look at a liƩle bit more informaƟon 
about each one of these four. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- PAGE 99 ---
99 
 
Okay, so again, focusing on the big picture perspecƟve, the ﬁrst thing we're going to be 
looking at is the macro market analysis. Now, this is really simply described as: are we in an 
inﬂaƟonary market, are we in a deﬂaƟonary market? When the markets or a currency or 
country is in an inﬂaƟonary condiƟon, it's going to have a direct relaƟonship on the currency. 
Obviously, when they're in a deﬂaƟonary market condiƟon, that's going to have a 
relaƟonship or a response to their currency. It also, in terms of equiƟes, it's going to have a 
direct relaƟonship to that. So when we talk about commodiƟes and we talk about stock 
prices later on in this mentorship, inﬂaƟonary and deﬂaƟonary market condiƟons are going 
to have a large impact on that as well. 
The next area is interest rate analysis. What makes a high reward trade setup is if 
your big picture perspecƟve, your intermediate perspecƟve, and your short-term perspecƟve 
is all in agreement, okay? And direcƟonal-wise, if you want to be a buyer/seller relaƟve to 
those three perspecƟves on the marketplace, if those three are in alignment and you trade 
on that side of the marketplace, that is high reward trading scenarios or setups. 
And the last of the four is seasonal inﬂuences, and that is obviously, you know, 
speaking on terms of: are we in a bullish seasonal tendency for that asset class, or pair, or 
currency, or for the dollar for that maƩer, or commodiƟes? If, you know, if we're studying 
commodiƟes, there's a large seasonal inﬂuence that has an eﬀect on commodiƟes, and if we 
see that, obviously that's going to be mirrored in what we see in the dollar index, okay? If 
the CRB index is entering a Ɵme when commodiƟes as a whole usually go higher, that's going 
to put downward pressure on the dollar. So if there's going to be downward pressure on the 
dollar, that means that we can see easy buy signals in currencies that have interest rates that 
are going higher, and that chasing of yield, okay, with the currency makes a high reward 
trade setup. And obviously, there's bear seasonal tendencies as well. But when we go 
forward in the mentorship, we're actually breaking down what speciﬁcally frames an 
inﬂaƟonary market and a deﬂaƟonary market, and how to go and look at interest rates 
speciﬁcally, and how to use the interest rate market for Ɵming. So it gives us a stage on when 
this criteria is in place, what we do with it, you know, what when should we be buying or 

--- PAGE 100 ---
100 
 
selling relaƟve to the interest rate analysis that we see, and the same thing with inter market 
analysis and seasonal tendencies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The next area of focus is obviously the intermediate perspecƟve, and that is by way 
of looking at a top-down analysis, traders data, and market senƟment. And for intermediate 
perspecƟve, there's only really three things that you're looking for, okay? But at least two of 
these things have to come in an agreement. So that means by looking at these three speciﬁc 
components, okay? Top down analysis is simply just looking at higher Ɵme frames down to a 
lower Ɵme frame, and COT, again if you're not familiar with that, is it's commitment of 
traders data. What we do is we look at the CFTC report that comes out every week, and it 
gives us a reportable level, uh report on large commercial traders, large speculators, and 
obviously the small specs. We're not really so concerned about small specs. Small specs 
would be somebody like ourselves, you know, when we're trading in, in unreportable uh 
levels. In other words, we don't trade at a level where we have to report our trade size, 

--- PAGE 101 ---
101 
 
which is mandated by the CFTC at least in the states it is. And market senƟment is simply I 
use market vein, okay, which is a measure of brokerage ﬁrms actually calling around and 
geƫng a consensus on whether they believe a parƟcular market is bullish or bearish and it's 
basically it's an opinion. You can, you can use other things like there's certain websites out 
there that have a bullish or bearish an opinion, like if you go to barchart.com and you pull up 
a speciﬁc commodity, you can actually see what the community at large in that forum has 
for that parƟcular uh that view. I think there's a preƩy much just about every form out there 
has a way of measuring senƟment and I do a lot of research on Saturdays with that 
perspecƟve alone. I go through a lot of resources and actually show you where I go and get 
all my senƟment numbers. But it's again this teaching is not going to teach you everything 
about every individual component. But the components that we're talking about speciﬁcally 
we're laying down the foundaƟon because it's important that we know where our study is 
going to be focused going through this mentorship and why it's not a lot of informaƟon, but 
it's a liƩle bit of homework that's needed for you to get to the decision making processes 
that I go through as a trader. So again intermediate perspecƟve let's take a closer look at 
these three things. 
 
 
Intermediate perspecƟve on the marketplace framing high reward trading scenarios 
or setups. Top-down analysis is obviously just going through a monthly chart and we do 
monthly chart analysis and what speciﬁcally are we looking for in a monthly chart? You 
know, obviously without going into great detail because I'm not trying to teach it all here, 
the monthly chart is we're looking at key levels, we're looking at intermediate and long-term 
highs and lows. We're looking at speciﬁc order blocks and we're looking at levels that show a 
clear indicaƟon of wanƟng to repel price higher or lower. And the same thing is said for the 
weekly chart. When we look at the weekly charts, we're looking at again a higher Ɵme frame 
perspecƟve so it gives us a great deal framework for high reward trading scenarios simply 
because of the weekly chart being again a weekly chart. Large funds, okay large managed 
funds, do a great deal of analysis on weekly charts, okay. Most of their work really comes by 
way of the Commitment of Traders, or the bearish hedging by the smart money. And again, if 

--- PAGE 102 ---
102 
 
you haven't watched any of my free tutorials, there's teachings on Commitment of Traders. 
It's important to know that you'll learn everything you need to know about COT data in this 
mentorship. So even if you haven't watched the videos, okay, or familiar with Commitment 
of Traders, just seƩle down, relax. Please don't send me a TwiƩer storm of quesƟons or 
emails because everything I'm talking about here, I'm laying down a foundaƟon. Okay, these 
are the things that you need to be starƟng to write down in your notebook because there's 
going to be areas in your notebook that you need to have speciﬁc notes relaƟve to these 
things. And I will give you everything you need to know and more, trust me, but I'm just 
giving you the foundaƟon of where our study is going forward, okay, going into this 
mentorship. And obviously with the COT data, we look at extreme levels historically in the 
last 12 months and the last four years. When the commercials on the Commitment of 
Traders report get to a 12-month extreme higher or low, in other words, if they have a real 
extreme high reading or low reading relaƟve to the net sum zero line that's used for the COT, 
net traded physician chart which you'll learn all about, that usually someƟmes indicates a 
change in their hedging program and it gives you a real clear indicaƟon of there's probably 
an enemy in terms of long-term high forming. And the last is market senƟment. Obviously 
we're looking at extreme market bullishness or extreme market bearishness. And again, 
that's one of the things that come by way of my Saturday studies. I go through all of the 
things that lead to my opinion or my own individual market senƟment readings based on a 
number of areas I go and look for readings and then I get an average of that reading and 
come away with the consensus whether or not we're either at a bullish or bearish 
senƟment. Now again, out of these three, you need to have at least two of them in 
agreement. The least of signiﬁcance is obviously the market senƟment, but the main thing 
is, you know, the top-down analysis you have to have a level or an idea relaƟve to the 
monthly, the weekly or the daily. It does not require two of those Ɵme frames, it just needs 
one, okay. You can trade really without the monthly, weekly and daily chart and trade on a 
idea relaƟve to the Commitment of Traders and senƟment. Now think about that. You're 
probably thinking, wait a minute Michael, when you say we goƩa use a daily chart, we goƩa 
use a weekly chart, we goƩa use a monthly chart. Yeah you can, but you can sƟll use the 
Commitment of Traders data informaƟon I'm gonna provide to you and market senƟment to 
frame your intermediate perspecƟve. Now obviously we're not execuƟng on an intermediate 
basis, but it frames your trade idea. You need one of two out of these three to come in 
agreement with your intermediate term perspecƟve. Now, I know what some of you are 
thinking. Well what if I look at a monthly chart and it tells me that this is bullish and the 
weekly chart says it's bearish and the daily chart is bearish, but the Commitment of Traders 
says it's bullish and market senƟment is extremely bullish? Okay, what do I do with all the 
informaƟon? How do I arrive at that? That's all going to be taught to you in the mentorship, 
but the main thing is this criteria is what we'll be using going forward. So that way when we 
look at the market in these views, you'll understand why I'm doing what I'm doing because 
it's based on the things that you're seeing here. Okay, so again just know that to have the 
intermediate perspecƟve outlined, you have to come to an agreement that at least two of 
these areas of study or focus for the intermediate term perspecƟve. You have to come in an 
agreement with two of them. In other words, you either have to be a buyer based on two 
speciﬁc areas of study here out of the three. Okay, so again as an example, you know, the 
weekly chart indicates higher prices and Commitment of Traders suggesƟng that there's 

--- PAGE 103 ---
103 
 
bullishness on the stance of the commercials, that would be enough to frame a intermediate 
term perspecƟve. That means you're going to simply wait around for a short term 
perspecƟve that lines up with buying and that's really, you know, all we do here. That's all 
we're doing, okay? So we're gonna frame a macro big perspecƟve, okay, and then an 
intermediate term perspecƟve and a short-term perspecƟve that's what we'll look at next. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Okay, so for short-term perspecƟves, we're going to be looking at the correlaƟon 
analysis, Ɵme and price theory, and IPTA, which is, again, interbank price delivery algorithm. 
So, take a closer look at this short-term perspecƟve. Okay, so right away there should be 
something staring at you that now also we have to look at three things to arrive at our short-
term perspecƟve. And the reason why is because most people just look at a one-minute 
chart or a ﬁve-minute chart and says, 'Okay, well, this is what it all I need,' and that's what 
gets them in trouble. So, when we look at short-term perspecƟves, okay, we're going to be 
looking at the correlaƟon analysis, and again, that is going to be linked to your 
understanding of the U.S. Dollar Index SMT analysis. And I know that probably went way 
over your head if you're new, if you never went through my free tutorials. That probably 
sounds like, uh, you know, something you hear from NASA. But the the dollar index SMT 
analysis is basically just looking at the relaƟonship between the dollar making higher highs, a 
relaƟonship between a currency to the dollar, like the BriƟsh Pound for instance. If the 
dollar's making higher highs, if the BriƟsh Pound versus the dollar fails to make lower lows, 
that's a cracking correlaƟon, and we we view that with a speciﬁc idea in mind. And the other 
correlaƟon analysis concept that I use is correlated pair SMT analysis where we look at 
closely correlated pairs, like for instance, the Euro Dollar and the BriƟsh Pound Dollar, 
because usually they move in general same direcƟon. Not always, obviously, you can see 

--- PAGE 104 ---
104 
 
with the Brexit issue. Generally, when there's a symmetrical market, which we learned about 
in this mentorship already, correlated pairs move in tandem. When they do not move in 
tandem, that obviously gives us a lot of insight in terms of how we should be trading the 
marketplace. If it is not moving in, uh, tandem, then obviously that's indicaƟon that we do 
not have what asymmetrical market. So that means we have to be very selecƟve with our 
trades because now there is the lack of symmetry in the marketplace. That means the dollar 
is very clearly moving higher, all foreign currencies are moving lower in sympathy. Next area 
of study is Ɵme and price theory. Okay, and so in Ɵme and price theory, we're looking 
speciﬁcally at, uh, the quarterly eﬀect. That means every, every three months or so, uh, 
there is a new price shiŌ in in the higher Ɵme frames. In other words, if the market's been 
going higher, uh, generally you'll probably see the market going to a consolidaƟon over the 
next three months. Uh, not for the next enƟre three months, but over the course of three 
months, if the market's been going higher, uh, you'll probably see the mark going to 
consolidaƟon or reverse, okay. And if the market's been going lower, okay, over the next 
three months, uh, we may see a consolidaƟon and go into a range or it could reverse and go 
higher. Then we just we're watching the the market over, it's usually a three to four months. 
So I'll allow a liƩle bit of, uh, overlap in terms of calendar months. It's not speciﬁc daily, uh, 
you know, so I'm, I'm sorry, it's not speciﬁc to the ﬁrst of every month to the end of, uh, you 
know, the last day of the third month. It's not that clear-cut. So we look at the market with a 
quarterly perspecƟve and allow the next shiŌ in market structure to unfold. There's a 
monthly eﬀect where we look at the monthly ranges and we look at speciﬁc points of 
reference relaƟve to the monthly chart. And then obviously the weekly range, most of you 
know about that because I teach a lot in my free tutorials about one shot one kill setups, 
which I think is like, that's like my bread and buƩer go-to. That's how I that's how I deﬁne my 
own trading. I am a weekly range trader, uh, by far and large. That's usually how I'm trading 
the marketplace. I'm looking for capitalizing, uh, at least the lion's porƟon of what I interpret 
as the weekly range that may unfold for the week ahead. And then obviously the daily range. 
Daily range is the Ɵme and price theory that we use for engineering the daily range of that, 
the power three, the open, high, low, and close, how that transforms into the actual daily 
candle. Uh, you know, those theories and ideas and concepts will will teach a great deal 
about that. Uh, and then obviously Ɵme and a Ɵme of day. Um, we'll build on what's already 
been shared in the free tutorials, and you'll actually have really precision-based concepts, 
uh, as it relates to that. And ﬁnally, IPTA, which is the interbank price delivery algorithm, will 
be nailing down insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow. We'll understand, obviously, by looking at liquidity. 
We'll be looking at how the market seeks liquidity, and we'll be ﬁnishing up our perspecƟve 
on market eﬃciency paradigm. So, when we are looking at a short-term perspecƟve, we 
require three things, okay, three things must come by way of these three areas of study: 
correlaƟon analysis, Ɵme and price theory, and the IPTA. Preferably, you have to have at 
least one from each, okay? So, in other words, you have to have, uh, your dollar index has 
given you an indicaƟon that it's showing you a cracking correlaƟon, or correlated pair SMT is 
giving you insight. Okay, so that would be, uh, one way of determining correlaƟon analysis. 
The next area is crucial, Ɵme and price. You have to have something from the Ɵme price 
theory to indicate where you're at relaƟve to, uh, the short-term perspecƟve. Now you're 
probably thinking, 'Okay, well how is the quarterly eﬀect, in a monthly eﬀect, or a weekly 
range, a short term perspecƟve?' Because short term is what you're actually going to 

--- PAGE 105 ---
105 
 
execute on, okay? It doesn't mean this is your ﬁve-minute or 15-minute, uh, setup. It's just 
this is your short-term perspecƟve. So we're looking at framing the ideas of trading around a 
big picture perspecƟve, intermediate term perspecƟve, and a short-term perspecƟve. When 
we get things in alignment that lead to us being a buyer, all across those three 
perspecƟves—being a big picture perspecƟve, an intermediate term perspecƟve, and a 
short-term perspecƟve—we are highly prepared to ﬁnd high reward setups to be a buyer in 
those condiƟons. It doesn't mean you're going to have, uh, you know, no losses and you're 
going to have all winners. It doesn't mean that, okay? But we have a context that we frame 
our ideas of trades with that model, or at least that's how I do it. So that's why you're here. 
You're going to learn how I do it. So this is how I do it. We can have the correlated analysis 
give us a indicaƟon that we're going to be bullish on dollar, which would be bearish on 
foreign currencies, and Ɵme and price theory, okay? Quarterly eﬀect, um, maybe we've seen 
the market moving higher, okay, in recent months, and we're probably geƫng ready to go 
into a down cycle, okay, and that would, uh, lend well to, um, you being short on foreign 
currencies. Uh, maybe the, uh, the weekly range. Okay, maybe we have, uh, iniƟally at the 
beginning of the week, we've rallied up from Sunday into Monday and now we're primarily 
looking for what lower prices, and if we see that weakness on the part of foreign currencies 
relaƟve to what the dollar index is suggesƟng, okay, these are all scenarios. I'm giving you 
just an idea because some of you probably think this is too big. Is it not helpful, okay? 
Believe me, this is this is what really trading is all about. You're doing all these things behind 
the scene. The very liƩle bit of Ɵme that's used to execute trades, okay, that's so Ɵny. The 
most of your, uh, Ɵme is going to be in the process of deciding whether or not you should be 
a buyer, seller, and what frames that criteria. And obviously, Ɵme of day. You know, are we at 
a Ɵme of day where it's conducive for the trade, the setup? Okay, we may not have anything 
immediately oﬀ the quarterly eﬀect or monthly eﬀect or weekly range or the daily range, 
okay? But the Ɵme of day may indicate that now suddenly there's something that we could 
do, okay? And obviously, IPTA is always going to be essenƟal, understanding insƟtuƟonal 
order ﬂow, and understanding where liquidity is, and why the market will seek that liquidity, 
and our perspecƟve is always with the market eﬃciency paradigm. We look at the 
marketplace in terms of where are the orders, and it's not the orders of the smart money, 
okay, like supply and demand tries to teach. They teach you that this is where smart money 
orders are, this is where smart money, uh, uh, wants to go back to. They're not always doing 
that. They're someƟmes seeking where exisƟng orders are that would allow them to 
engineer counterparƟes to their execuƟon, okay? So, in other words, they'll run old highs for 
the buy stops, they'll run old lows for the sell stops because that will be a forced injecƟon of 
liquidity to be counterparty to their bookmaking. So we're going to go forward in our studies 
in this mentorship with a great deal of reﬁnement on all of these things. And I know some of 
you probably looked at this and said, 'Well, this is a lot of just, uh, boring informaƟon,' but I 
have to give you a context of where our area of study is going to be. So in the grand scheme 
of things, we're going to be breaking the market down in these speciﬁc perspecƟves and 
then what we do in these respecƟve, uh, areas of study that give us what we're speciﬁcally 
doing on a day-by-day basis. Now, it looks like, and I've been talking for a long Ɵme, it looks 
like a lot of informaƟon and a lot of things to do before you come away with, 'Okay, I want to 
be a buyer, seller.' You'll see, obviously, the big picture perspecƟve you usually have that at 
the beginning of the week. And the intermediate term perspecƟve, you usually have that at 

--- PAGE 106 ---
106 
 
the beginning of the week, too. It could happen or change gears in the middle of the week 
relaƟve to Tuesday and Wednesday, but usually the short-term perspecƟve, that's the one 
that usually changes on a day-by-day basis, okay? So understand that while we're doing a lot 
of our homework and the big picture perspecƟve and intermediate term perspecƟve and we 
can do that on the weekends, uh, your nightly or daily procedures will be largely in this list 
that you see right here. So when we do, like, um, live sessions, okay, I'm operaƟng from this 
scale right here. I'm looking for three things that come in agreement, and that's why when I 
call a speciﬁc move in the marketplace, they usually go there. And I'm using this right here. 
They are all linked to my understanding of what I arrived at for my intermediate term 
perspecƟve and my big picture perspecƟve, okay? But once you understand price acƟon 
extremely well and you operate as a scalper, okay, and I'm not trying to induce the noƟon of 
scalping as a as a an ideal way of trading, but I know some of you can take my informaƟon 
and do that, invariably you can just use what you see here and you could be a very eﬃcient 
scalper if you understand what is being shown here and what speciﬁcally that we do with 
this informaƟon. You know, understanding what the quarterly eﬀect is, what the monthly 
eﬀect is, weekly range, daily range, and Ɵme of day, understanding what SMT divergence is 
and correlated SMT divergence, understand what that cracking correlaƟon means for you as 
a trader, and then obviously understanding insƟtuƟonal order ﬂow—where's the stops and 
why those stops would be necessarily up for grabs, why would the market go there? That's 
what the market eﬃciency paradigm is. So, again, this is the only thing that you need to be 
worrying about in terms of trade plan development for the ICT mentorship. All these things 
come by way of very, very short amount of Ɵme looking at price and you'll come away with 
what you want to do right away. And iniƟally you're going to write down these things. 'Okay, 
I believe that the big picture perspecƟve is, I believe that it's going to be this, this and this,' 
and then you're going to go into intermediate term perspecƟve. You know, you come away 
with your analysis on what you believe there. And when you see the short-term perspecƟve, 
you go through the same processes here—basically what you saw me doing, with the 
excepƟon of not bringing out the SMT divergence, uh, studies in September because I was 
looking at [it], but you just didn't see it. The, uh, I was operaƟng on this this short-term 
perspecƟve. That's how, that's this is my model, okay? So as a day trader, as a short-term 
trader, and as a one-shot, one-kill trader, this is all the informaƟon I need. I don't need 
anything else outside of this page you're looking at right here. I just need three things to 
come in agreement with that and then I'll understand where the short-term perspecƟve is 
and where the market's going to go. And that's why I'm like 90-plus percent accurate in the 
month of September. We, we preƩy much had 100 hit rate when everything I asked the 
market to show us in terms of where it was going to go, why it would go there. It's not 
always going to be that easy. There's going to be transiƟons, obviously, on an intermediate 
term basis and even a long-term basis, and that will cause you to have hiccups, okay, or 
speed bumps, if you will, or barriers, okay, on these short-term perspecƟves. And that's 
where the losses are going to be. You're going to ﬁnd that your losses are not incurred so 
much by way of trading in the intermediate and long-term perspecƟve—the big picture—
when you're trading in those higher Ɵme frames. Those trades generally will serve you very 
well. You will sƟll have losses, but you're going to ﬁnd that to come in agreement with all 
three perspecƟves: the big picture, intermediate term perspecƟve, and the short-term 
perspecƟve. And if you frame your trades with this mindset, what that does is it, number 

--- PAGE 107 ---
107 
 
one, it gives you clarity. Number one, it gives you the understanding what it is that you 
should be expecƟng to see the marketplace and why, which is important. Okay, it's not 
important to understand every dynamic behind what's being shown here for each 
perspecƟve of the marketplace of study that's going to be taught to you, but understanding 
that you need to have seven things, okay, seven things that build high reward trade setups. 
This is not execuƟon, this is not entry; it just gives you the framework, what makes that 
trade high probability or basically high reward. You sƟll have to wait for a entry signal, and 
again, that's the least of your concern right now. So that's what I'm saying by looking at this 
informaƟon like this, even without going into great detail about each individual component, 
you can see clearly that there is a a method behind what I do. Okay, folks that are on the 
outside, they look at what I do and they say, 'Well, it's there's no real structure here, there's 
no real, um, a plan of acƟon. Now, there's no way of knowing what it is that I should be 
doing from the beginning to the end,' and that is because they have not been exposed to 
what you're being exposed to now. There is a method, there is a rhythm, there's a rouƟne 
that you go through, but they have to come by way of a process-oriented thinking. And this 
is how I break the market down. This is how I internalize it, and I go through the process of 
going through these three perspecƟves. And by doing that, it gives me everything that I need 
in terms of arriving at a decision. And once you have that same process of of thinking, okay, 
you'll have no problem going through the marketplace ﬁnding scenarios and setups and 
picking out what gives you your unique trade setup that you like to trade, that you ﬁnd very 
easy. And the the clarity will be exactly as you imagined it would be, and when you get in 
front of the chart, it just jumps oﬀ at you, okay? That's how it'll be for you as a new trader. 
You don't get exposed to these types of thinking, you don't get exposed to these process, 
uh, you know, uh procedures where you have to look at things conceptually because, 
number one, it doesn't sell courses, it doesn't make you want to watch that YouTube video. 
You don't want to listen to this one, okay? But this is where the real meat is, okay? You have 
to know why these things make a diﬀerence and why it's important that you understand 
what you need to be doing for individual perspecƟves of study, and then once you go 
through it, you understand it. It's like anything else. No one wants to read the driver's 
manual to learn how to drive, no one wants to look at the instrucƟon manual on how to put 
that TV stand together that you had to buy because your wife said you had to have it, okay? 
You just want to look at the parts and ﬁt it together so you can quickly get through it. You 
can't do that with trading, okay? You have to go through this boring stuﬀ, and it means a 
great deal, trust me. If I would have been told this iniƟally, I would have ignored it too. I 
would have just pushed it aside, and I've been looking for, 'Give me the buy signals, give me 
the sell signals,' because that's how I thought too. Once I felt the pain of not knowing what I 
was doing, then I suddenly got interested in what makes traders think the way they do. And 
then what's the process of why they think the way they think, and why why do they build 
their trading plans around that? You think about it, what do you not see in the marketplace 
when people sell things, and they sell course and stuﬀ, what is it they don't sell? They never 
sell you an actual trading plan. They never sell you a step-by-step, 'This is what you're going 
to do and this is the reason why it should do this.' No one does that. That was my goal for 
this mentorship. I want to show you what speciﬁcally I do as a trader. Now I'm going to give 
you all kinds of ideas on how you can reﬁne that and make it uniquely yours, and you can 
deﬁne your own trading model around that because I believe, just like Chris Laurie has said, 

--- PAGE 108 ---
108 
 
and I was in agreement with him when he said it, you can't copy someone else. You can't do 
it. And some of you want to be just like me as a trader and do this and do that. You're only 
really asking to be able to call moves and trade to the levels like I call in advance. So it's not 
that you want to trade like me; you want to have the ability to read and interpret price 
acƟon the same way I do. And that's what you bought and paid for, and that's what you're 
going to get as a delivery. By the end of this mentorship, you're going to have everything 
that I do, why I do what I do, and how I arrive at that understanding is what has been shown 
here. There's no secret sauce, there's nothing outside of what's been shown here, the 
theory behind why they all bled together, okay? That's what we'll be building on. And at the 
end, once we understand inƟmately what each one of these perspecƟves we're looking for 
and what criteria blends well for the decision-making process for each individual perspecƟve 
and individual respecƟve component, once we have that, then we have the building blocks 
for what the ﬂowchart for every model of trading that there can be—day trading, scalping, 
swing trading, one-shot, one-kill, you know, posiƟon trading, all those things. It's easy for me 
to have a ﬂowchart and say, 'Okay, XYZ, do this or do that.' You'll know what I mean by that. 
And that's what I said: if I if I put the ﬂowchart up on the website right now, you wouldn't be 
able to do anything with it. It would be no use to you, you couldn't do anything with it. But 
by breaking down these individual components inƟmately, you'll know what I mean when I 
say, 'Okay, do this or do that.' 'Okay, okay, well, I understand what that means,' and then I 
know how to arrive at the decision relaƟve to those speciﬁc points of reference. And then by 
doing that, you'll you'll work through the ﬂowchart and you'll either come to the decision 
point where you take acƟon, or you stand and you wait for more informaƟon, or you go back 
to the previous stage and you wait for more informaƟon there. And it makes it very binary. 
You need your trading to be just like that. It's boring, and that's exactly what you want. You 
do not want high excitement in your trading. Only do that on the weekends when you had a 
really good smashing week, when you just killed it, that's when emoƟons are allowed. But 
throughout the week, when the markets are sƟll trading, you cannot allow your emoƟons to 
get ahead of yourself. You can't get crazy, and you want your trade to be boring. You want it 
to be monotonous, you want it to be mundane and and rouƟne, and nothing exciƟng about 
it. That's when you know that you're not going to be forced by emoƟon, you're not being 
drawn in by fear and greed. It's just business as usual, it's the same thing all the Ɵme. And 
you hear it someƟmes when I'm talking, uh, you know, I'll talk about a speciﬁc level, the 
market starts screaming for it. I'm sƟll talking, you know? I'm not worrying about it because 
I've seen it so many Ɵmes. And the whole Ɵme, the the room is lit up. They're like, 'I can't 
believe this is happening. Look how it's moving, look, it went right to the pip.' You're all 
experiencing that for the ﬁrst Ɵme, especially in December, everyone that was watching on a 
day-to-day basis. That's not something I get excited about unless, you know, I see a real new 
trader when they get in there and they start looking at it and their response is, then I can get 
to relive that moment. But when we go through the process of breaking down the markets 
and we're looking for high reward trading scenarios, you have to suppress that desire. Don't 
be in a rush to get to that feeling of, 'You were right, and look at the market.' Don't do that. 
And by having a process-oriented thinking, you're thinking binary. It's X or it's O, it's on or it's 
oﬀ, it's black or it's white. That's how your trading has to be. And if you can work your 
trading model into that area of study and execuƟon, you will have no problem with fear and 
greed. You won't rush, you won't have any issues at all. And just like we menƟoned in the 

--- PAGE 109 ---
109 
 
previous teaching, if you have a loss, there's no reason to worry about it. It's very easy to get 
it back, and even if you have a string of losses, it doesn't take long to recoup that. But if you 
lose your mind, okay, thinking all of a sudden the markets are, you know, are now going to 
work like this again, and there's no reason to think that way. You'll see, by the end of this 
mentorship, you'll know everything you need to know and how to operate and execute and 
engage the marketplace on a day-by-day basis, and you'll know what exactly you're going to 
do and why. But it comes by what we just described here in all the frameworks that's been 
shown here—nothing outside of this, no secret stuﬀ, okay? Everything reﬁned to great 
detail, my new detail. And then what that'll allow us to do is to have speciﬁc processes that 
will lend well to speciﬁc condiƟons that we'll talk about, and then all that will give us our 
trade scenarios and setups. But the ingredient behind it all is what's been shown here in this 
tutorial, and it's important you understand that this is exactly what you would be wanƟng to 
know, but you just didn't know it, and it doesn't sound sexy, it doesn't make a good course, it 
doesn't make you feel like you're learning how to be the next superstar trader, but it is the 
foundaƟon of thinking eﬃcient trading. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
